If you're a mortgage broker tired of wasting time on unqualified leads, spinning your wheels
with tire kicker discovery calls and chasing deals that don't convert, this episode is your 
wake up call.

My guest Taylor Atkinson quietly built over did over $5 million from his podcast.

But more importantly, he's been able to eliminate his discovery calls because he built so 
much trust before the client even gets on a phone call with him.

And he's able to get applications and documents before he ever talks to his clients.

Is an absolutely brilliant strategy and one of the benefits of creating long form content that 
create builds trust.

Hey, I'm Scott Packford, the founder of Bricks Mortgage Canada's one of Canada's fastest 
growing mortgage brokerages.

And every week I bring you guests to help share ideas, strategies, tactics to grow your 
business or sometimes I dive into solo shows.

Today I guess Taylor Atkinson, he shares some amazing insights about authenticity, about 
how he turns client turning.

Saying no to a client actually builds more trust and gets him more business.

And he talks about how this whole podcast strategy that he started three years ago has 
absolutely been killer for him.

I think you're going to enjoy it.

Before we jump into that, I want to give a shout out to our sponsor, Ownwell.

Ownwell is an amazing tool for Canadian brokers.

It allows you to send these reports to your clients that help them track their home equity 
and their buying power.

And they have high open rate, 60 to 80% and they because it's about the person's own per 



home and it creates tons of conversations for refis for, for opportunities to buy the property.

Check them out at Ohmwell ca Scott and check out this episode, this conversation I have 
with Taylor.

Hey Taylor, welcome to the show.

Thanks for having me.

So hey, before we jump into this, tell me a little bit about yourself and how you got in the 
mortgage biz.

Yeah, well I worked on helicopters for 20 years overseas and you know, during that time I 
built up a pretty healthy portfolio of rental properties in Canada.

So I was non resident living in Panama doing that whole overseas tax thing as well as 
growing a real estate portfolio.

And then you know, when my wife and I decided to move back to Canada, kind of in the crux
of COVID you know, I thought I would be a pretty good mortgage broker and it would 
provide lots of autonomy and it would just be easy money and low stress that I was 
definitely wrong.

But yeah, so I got my, got my license and I think I started funding deals in 20, 2020 or 2021.

And yeah, that's, that's kind of how I got started out.

So how's it gone since then? So since 2021.

Like, do you recall, like, your first, what was your first year like?

Yeah, it was, it was pretty good. You know, you, you don't know what you don't know.

So, yeah, I listened to your podcast. I read Dustin Woodhouse's books.

Kind of thought, yeah, I'll just, I'll just be speaking to a couple lenders and basically 
facilitating deals, and it should, shouldn't be that hard.

And then like, you get buried in documents and stressful CofS and all this stuff.

But I think the first year was pretty good.

I want to say I did around like 10 or 11 million in volume, and then it just kind of 



compounded year after year.

And yeah, when I look back, it was a pretty good decision, I think.

Right. But I mean, the easy money and low stress, it's not the case.

It's not that there's good money in it if you can manage the stress, but if you can't manage 
the stress, it.

It's going to be, it's going to be a problem.

Absolutely. Yeah.

The, the, yeah, the workloads, you know, you tend to burn out more than you would expect 
in this industry.

But yeah, I got a good balance going on right now. So.

When I first started in mortgages, I was a paramedic.

I actually found being a paramedic more, less stressful than this.

I found that I could handle almost any paramedic call.

911 Call, I found less stressful than somebody's financing because the 911 calls were over 
relatively quickly.

Like, it was, it was a high stress moment.

But it didn't drag on for a week where you were like, is this deal going to die?

Is it like, am I going to be telling them, hey, you're going to get sued?

You know, you lose your deposit like that.

I think it was the prolonged, like you're in a cooker, a pressure cooker, versus as a 
paramedic.

It was like, okay, 30 minutes.

If it was an hour of an intense call by the time you get there, like, that would have been.

Yeah, peak.



It was a. Peak was one hour.

It's like, okay, you can handle high stress for an hour, but stretch that out over seven days or
two weeks.

It's like the different. Different.

You know, I've thought about this.

I'm like, you know, as I evolve in this industry and I see issues come up more frequently, 
like, will my stress level go down?

Because same deal. Right? Previously Working on helicopters.

You know, you're fixing an aircraft that's flying around a dozen people and you know, we'd 
be out heli skiing or firefighting or offshore oil and gas, whatever, you know.

And one of my last jobs, like the aircraft main rotor blade hit a tree, heli skiing.

But it wasn't a stressful incident because that was my second aircraft that hit a tree heli 
skiing.

You're like, oh, I've done this a million times. Like, I know what the issues are going to be.

Mortgages. It's like, man, there's just surprise after surprise after surprise.

So, yeah, we'll see if this starts to go down after a few more years.

I've, I've often said there's that like, I think there's a thousand and one ways to die in the 
west or something.

Like there's a movie. It's kind of like there's a thousand and one ways for a file to die.

Like there's just.

And when you think you've seen them all, another one creeps up and you're like, never saw 
that before.

And then, you know, you learn from it.

So I want to ask you about authenticity because I think is one of the things that you have 
been champion of, but also something you're intentional about is this idea of being 



authentic with your clients, who you are, your brand.

Maybe talk me through that and how you feel like that's helped you.

And also back to the stress thing.

It actually helps with your stress because you're not trying to, you're not trying to pretend 
or fit into something that you're not.

Right. You're not. And you're not overpromising crap if you're, you know. So talk me 
through that.

Yeah, thanks. Yeah, I think quite a bit to unpack. There.

Something I've focused a lot on recently is more like return on energy instead of return on 
investment.

So. And that's, that's part of being authentic, I feel.

So if I'm, you know, most of the clients that I'm working with are high net worth business 
for self, you know, I'm, I'm an integral part of their team.

I'm working with their cpa, their financial advisor. Um, because I enjoy that.

Like I enjoy speaking their lingo and I actually love tax code.

Hence like moving to Panama and doing that thing, you know, So I, yes,.

There's less taxes if you can do that.

But yeah, zero percent tax. But it, you know, doing it legitimately and like finding loopholes.

The legal, legal ways to.

Yeah. To to build wealth. So I love being on that part of the team.

And, you know, the authentic piece. I'm not, I'm not super hungry.

On the commission side, like, I, I just think there should be more transparency in this 
industry.

Like on the client side of things.



It's crazy to me how, like, penalties in Canada or like, you don't know who has the best rate.

And it's, you know, the clients are just inherently, they need to trust their broker or bank 
like, a lot.

So in the last couple years, you know, this whole renewal gold rush that brokers were 
talking about, I honestly thought it was like complete, like on the renewal side of things.

Unless there is a pain point that you can address with the client, whether that's increased 
monthly budget or equity takeout, consolidating debt, whatever, that lender, like 90% of the
time is going to give you the best renewal rate.

To beat that out is pretty tough.

And you can come up with all these complex strategies and doing the Smith maneuver and 
this, that, whatever.

And I, you know, I've seen ads out there, like on Instagram of other brokers saying, hey, 
here's how you beat, like CIBC at 3.89 or something.

It's like, yeah, but you're already with CIBC. You have a line of credit with them. It's 
revolving.

Like, you can set up the Smith maneuver. We don't have to switch lenders.

So when I've been having those conversations over the last couple years, yeah, I've been 
turning away tons of work because I would just say, you know, I can switch you.

This is what it would look like.

Or, you know, I can coach you for 10 minutes and this is what I would do with my current 
lender.

And, you know, I, I've probably lost 80 of those renewal clients and some of them just want 
to work with me just because they're like, yeah, I'd rather have you in my corner, but the 
referrals I get from them moving forward is massive.

Yeah, yeah.

So it's.

Well, you're playing, you're playing the long game instead of the short.



The short game is I'm going to try to convince this person that they.

There's like, you know, the secret sauce that they need to know.

And it's like most of the time it's not that. It's just. It's math. Like Ron Butler says.

It's just math. It's, it's. And, yeah, so I, I definitely respect that.

That's how you're wired and how you think and you're right. Like 99. There is the.

I don't think unless there's a really good reason for them to change.

Most of the time there is no, you know, gold rush. It's the bank's gold.

They really like their gold. And they don't let. Just let you come in and be like, I want your 
gold.

It's like, you're not getting my gold, you know, And I think that that's a.

Definitely did not turn out the way most brokers thought. I think if there's refis that are.

That makes sense because of strategy, because of a product that's different. Cool.

But that's a small percent. It's not all of them.

Well, and you know what. What's happening now? So, yeah, we're recording this.

August 19th, boom Scotia comes out with a awesome quick close special.

All those clients that, you know, I turned down or went variable or didn't do anything, do 
you not think I'm reaching out to them now, saying, hey, uninsured 30 year M 3.99.

Like, we can move you over. Like, now's the time to address any of those issues.

Here's an opportunity.

Instead of trying to win their business a year ago when, like, rates weren't really that great 
anyway.

So, yeah, it's just about trying to, like, do what's right by the client.

I know everyone says it, but it. I think it is incredibly important.



I agree with you and you. And sometimes no is one of the best ways to build.

Like, you're telling the client, no, I'm not your person. It is the best way to build.

Builds more trust than saying, yes, I can do it. I found that in my own experience anyway.

Yeah.

Well, how bad does it look when you say, yeah, I can be competitive on that rate, and then 
they take that back to RBC and RBC crushes you and you're like, oh, yeah, sorry, I didn't.

You are definitely killing your chance for referrals.

Because what happens is, is that not only did you not ever have that deal because it was.

It didn't make sense for you to do, but you also just killed.

The referral source doesn't trust you because they're like, oh, you are. I don't.

You know, you weren't looking out for me. And so I think totally. Yeah, that's.

That's absolutely brilliant. Yeah.

The odd time. And yeah, maybe I shouldn't say this, but I. I know Jim Cherluca said it a while
ago.

The odd time. If I get a client and they, you know, show me the rate offer.

If it's genuinely not that great, which happens sometimes, I say, yeah, absolutely, I can beat 
that.

Or if you really just want to stay there and you don't want to go through the headache of 
this, you, you know, I can draft you up an email and, you know, say, I can be more 
competitive and, and if you want, you can leverage that against the bank.

And if, if they don't take it, then let's work together. So it's just like little simple things to.

If I was in their position, that's. That's what I would want.

Right. I've described it before as. It's like poker.

In poker, you can't win every hand, but how you play a hand you can't win will set you up to 
win other hands.



And so these deals that you can't win if you play them right, if you take care of the client, if 
you ask for reviews, maybe say, hey, look, here's a letter.

Can't help you, but maybe we can squeeze them Friends About Me. Here's. Go write a 
review.

You are setting yourself up to win other hands, and you have to play a different game.

I feel like that's.

That, that comes with, you know, just maturity and as you said, authenticity and 
transparency.

Back to the. You mentioned that earlier. Yeah, yeah. Tell me about return on energy. I love 
this.

So what. How do you decide what's the return on energy versus return on investment?

And, and why did you make that switch?

As a guy who invests in real estate, obviously likes investment.

Invests in real estate and investments.

Yeah, man. I mean, it's. It's hard to quantify.

Except, you know, recently, like, like you, I got the whoop band.

So I'm trying to, like, manage stress and health and optimize that.

So I can probably quantify it a little bit more.

But something that, like, kills me at the end of the day, like, fulfillment, document collection, 
doing docusign, like, signing packages.

I love the, you know, strategy calls with clients.

I don't do a lot of discovery calls, and we can touch on that later, but I do a ton of strategy 
calls.

I enjoy that part. And then it basically goes off to, you know, my, my business partner, I call 
her.



She's like an integral part of the business.

She'll do all the document collection, kind of like clean up the app, and then I jump back in.

And I love underwriting, so I'll underwrite, get a commitment letter, and then she takes it 
from there.

So I focus on two things that like at the end of the day I want to be full of energy because I 
want to go pick up my kids and like be excited and you know, be able to play with them 
instead of getting bogged down.

So in terms of an investment.

Yeah, I pay my partner like quite well, I think for an industry standard.

But I'm much happier to do that than try and, you know, keep more of the pie and just be 
burnt out every day.

Right. So you're.

You.

The things you like to do are the strategy session and then the appro.

Making and getting a commitment. So got the strategy.

I'm going to make sure I'm going to get this thing approved and then they take it across the 
finish line for you.

Any last pieces and you don't have to spend your time chasing down.

But you know, a T4 you can pick kid and not.

Yeah, yeah, exactly.

Okay, so walk me through there's.

I also know you started a podcast a while ago, years ago, which I'm a big fan of.

So as a, you know, I've started a podcast 11 years ago now and I'm.

And so tell me about how has that helped?



What have been the tangible and intangible benefits of having a local real estate mortgage 
focused podcast?

Yeah, so, yeah, a bit of a plug clone real estate podcast.

We'll put a link. So you go check it out. Guys, I think what you're doing is brilliant and.

Yeah, so. Yeah, keep going.

Yeah. When we started, we had no idea really why we were doing it.

We just thought there was a void in the market and we loved listening to podcasts.

And when I say we, it's Matt Glenn, he's my co host, He's a real estate agent in Kelowna here.

So we were just golfing one day and thought, you know what, we would really love to do 
this.

It would be fun. It'd be kind of a good challenge for ourself get out of our comfort zone.

Why don't we commit to doing it for a year and we'll try and get like 50 shows.

Um, and knew that it would be like a pretty slow burn, but didn't know what would come 
from it.

But yeah, the, the, the main thing that's come from it is that authenticity piece.

You know, if somebody listens to you for a couple hours and realistically they're not even 
really listening to me, they're listening to my guests.

Like I'll maybe speak for the total of eight minutes, but they just naturally, you know, trust 
you and they know about you and they know about your life.

So it's. It's.

They can tell a lot about the type of questions you ask and how you interact with someone.

Do you guys do any solo shows? So is it all interview shows or is it some. A mix.

We've done, I think maybe like, five solo shows, which we should probably focus on more, 
but we just love having guests on.



Like, there's a lot of interesting people to speak to. But that's.

You know, when I said I don't really do discovery calls, that's kind of one of the main 
reasons is I'll.

I'll.

I'll get an intro from a referral partner, or they'll reach out to me because of the podcast or 
friend of a friend, whatever.

Um, I. I get them. You know, I'm a bit backwards in this.

I get them to fill out an application first, so. Cause I really want to protect my time. My.

My partner will collect documents, and then I'll dive into it and I'll really find opportunities.

And usually they're okay with it.

Like, you know, it's a bit of a barrier entry to them, but they're okay with it because they've 
listened to the podcast.

So having. That's pretty great. And then.

So it actually reduces the amount of work.

The work that you put into the podcast reduces the amount of work you have to do to 
convince a client that I should trust you enough to give you documents.

And because there's a trust factor there. Right. It's like, I got to get you this stuff.

I got to fill it out, maybe put in my sin number. Like, that's always been.

The people feel a bit like, oh, I just want to get.

So I just want you to tell me what my options are.

I don't want to give you all this info, but the fact that you have this podcast builds so much 
trust that they're.

That.

That they're willing to do all that before they've even actually got on the phone call with 
you.



Yeah. Which is crazy.

So what percentage of your clients will do. Do.

Will give you the full app and stuff before you even talk to them.

Would you say if you think back for the last year, all of them.

Yeah. I never have anyone walk away.

If I ask, if I send the link for an application, everybody does it, right?

Are you guys listening to this? Anybody listening?

Like, this is the power of building your, you know, your authentic brand and your voice with
things that you can share and sticking to it for three years.

Obviously, you guys have. This has been a. Because it's easy not to do as well.

The other part about it is that I've, you know, I've been doing this 11 years and so numerous
times I'm like, what am I doing?

And yet you just somehow get up and do it again, do it again.

And it just keeps building the momentum. Right?

Yeah, I think we were, you know, in the second year we were just kind of doing it because it 
was like we're having fun and it was hard to quantify the value out of it.

But the conversion rate we knew was increasing.

You know, like you'd be having conversation with clients and they would say, you know, 
hey, where do you think rates are going right now?

Oh, I just did a podcast with Brendan Ogmundson, BCRA chief economist. Why don't you 
listen to that?

Like he spends 45 minutes talking about the bond market and bank accounted overnight 
rate.

Like, that's an amazing resource. Should I be, you know, parroting that,.



Trying to do a better job than them? Probably not. Just let. Exactly.

Yeah. So I think the conversion's been great and then in like a monetary value.

So, yeah, to be fully transparent with it, you know, we've done 104 shows now over, like you
said, three years.

My cost to that, like my direct cost, obviously I split it with my co host is about a $20,000 
investment.

And that's just, you know, having our producer basically, like there's not a lot of equipment 
that comes with this, so a few subscriptions of software, but our producers, incredible.

So she, she runs with it and then it gets put out on like we get three social media reels, like 
on Instagram, goes on YouTube, LinkedIn, everything like that.

So, you know, out of the 20,000 I've spent, I've.

I can directly correspond just over $4 million in mortgages that I've funded.

So, you know, about $40,000 in commission. Plus we pull on a couple sponsors once in a 
while.

So we have another, like, know my portion of sponsorships, another $5,000.

So I'm net up 25,000 from the podcast.

And, and you don't do discovery calls.

So like, what is that worth to your business when you think about.

And then also the network that you build.

The thing about a podcast, especially an interview style show, is you, you build a network of 
people that know you and like relationships.

And I suspect, I wonder if you went back and looked at the 104 guests.

Have any of them become custom clients?

Yes. Yeah, I can pick one off right away for sure. I just funded that more Was that.

Included in the 4 million or is that additional?



You know what? I did not include that. So there's another million on that one. So 5 million, 
right?

There you go. And then there's also those people that refer you, right?

If you go back and look to the people that have been on the show that the guests that how 
many of them have sent you referrals.

And so if you factor in that number, the number goes up again.

And I mean, one other thing I'll touch on is like we've had a lot of lawyers on appraisers, like
people in the industry, right?

When you're working on a file and something comes up last minute and you know, not that 
you need a favor, but you're speaking with the lawyer saying, hey, like this came up.

We need a stat deck or like, hey, it's going to be close. Instructions are being sent out late.

Can you help me out?

Like, I just feel they're a little more, you know, willing to help out when you've like sat down
and talked with them for an hour and like promote.

And you also make them the star. Like the show's done, right? It's not about you as the host.

You get the reflected, intelligent people. They're like, oh, Scott, you're so smart.

I don't know if I'm that smart. I just ask questions and then people, they make that.

If you want to make that assumption, you're listening. I'll appreciate that.

But like, you make them the star of the show, right? You get them to talk.

And I feel like that also helps in terms of building that relationship.

But the wait, is that what you're.

Doing to me right now?

I'm stealing your intelligent, your iq. I talked to Dave Laroque. I'm doing a show with him 
soon.



Every time I talk to that guy, I feel like my IQ goes up. But it's down again within the next 24.

It's only a 24 hour bump in IQ because I'm like, oh my gosh, I'm so smart.

I'm like, what did he say again? And it's gone just as quick.

Yeah, he was awesome. I listened to your last show with him. He's great.

Yeah, he's coming out again. So I think it's going to be fun to have a conversation with Dave.

Guys are listening to this, want to hear say, but I totally agree with you.

It's almost like you're like the Ryan Seacrest.

And if Ryan Seacrest calls and the lawyer is like, oh yeah, I'll help you get that sorted out, 
man.

It's Taylor. Like, I know that guy, you know. Yeah, that's cool.

I don't know if I love that reference, but I'll take it.

What about.

Okay, so how has your, like, how have you evolved your role in your business over the last 
couple of years?

So what you're doing, like how you started out and then what you're doing now, I mean, 
we've kind of touched on it, but is there anything I missed there?

No, I don't think so. I mean, I kind of cut my teeth doing a lot of, I would say, alternative 
deals.

And whether it was like a strictly B lender or if it was just a high net worth or, you know, 
like Scotia has some cool programs.

Manulife does. TD does.

Like, you just have to find those niche policies where you can make files fit where the others
can't.

You know, pros and cons to that.

Like, they can be a lot more work and unfortunately, you know, yeah, they can be like a little



bit more stressful.

So I'm still doing a lot of that.

But you know what's great about them, I know they're not going to walk into the bank and 
get it done by themselves.

Like, I've literally had clients like Scotia clients come back, be like, hey, I got rejected from 
Scotia.

I'm like, oh, what are your assets? Like, oh, I can make this fit all day.

So yeah, I still focus on that. I don't do a ton of like insured cookie cutter deals.

Like, I'm not going to battle on the rate. I just think it's not first time.

Buyers you're working with.

You're working with people that are investors, sell business owners, that type of.

Yeah, I do the odd first time home buyer, but there's only so much value you can add there.

Like unless they haven't opened a first home savings account or something.

But I really want to be able to look at somebody's T1s and be like, oh, this is, this is what we 
need to do here is like a huge value add for you.

And I don't want to implement some crazy strategy that they can't track after three, four, 
five years.

Like, I want to do it now, you know? Right.

So yeah, yeah, that makes a lot of sense.

Yeah, that's kind of still.

You had mentioned to me earlier before we turned the podcast about how you had hired 
somebody before you really thought you were, you needed them.

And maybe talk me through that because there's a lot of people.

List one of the people think, people say to me, what's your biggest regret?



One is I didn't get a CRM soon enough. Second is I waited too long to hire.

I feel like you may have actually got a little bit ahead of that, which I think probably helped 
you.

You hired probably sooner than a lot of people would have.

So talk me through that and what you were thinking.

Yeah, I, like I said before, I just did not love the document fulfillment side of things.

I thought I would be better at it because I'm, I'm pretty detailed with my own stuff.

But, you know, you get frustrated with it and I'm just not that good at it, to be honest.

Like, I just. Yeah, so I hired her.

We did like an hourly rate to start with, and it kind of forced me to drive enough business to 
justify, you know, paying her.

And then, and then you just start to grow into it and start to realize, like, oh, I can do more 
files now.

So, you know, year after year we start to grow together. And then I wanted to restructure 
things.

Not because I wanted to, like, motivate her financially, but I just really did want to see her 
succeed financially.

Like, I, you know, I want people around like, you know, much like you.

I. I'm with bricks because, because you and Denise and there's that authenticity piece of like,
I feel if I was in a jam at, you know, 4 o' clock on a Friday and I needed call a friend, I could 
actually call you and you could help me out.

Not that, you know, everyone should do.

I don't know if you have, but I mean, if it's a deal problem, definitely call Denise.

She's going to be the. You have other issues, you know, you.

Know who to call.



I'm not going to call Scott for that.

Yeah, but I just mean, like, you're, you're there to help, right?

It's not all about the bottom dollar of like, hey, I want to see your business grow.

And that's the same contract I have with her.

Like, it's just a, a word document contract that we've written and, you know, it's evolved is 
like whatever I can do to support balance in your life and like financial stability and wealth 
and growth and everything.

That's what I want to do. So we've, we've done it more.

You know, there's a base salary and then a commission structure.

So obviously the more we do, the more she makes.

But it allows me to really focus on, you know, where I shine with clients.

And I think that provides a better Service to clients, and then it allows her to do what she's 
really good at.

So we both kind of stay in our lanes. And yeah, I would.

I would say, like, I would probably be doing 30. Less volume without her.

Like, I just would not be able to keep up, you know, and it would.

You'd also be. The enjoyment would be.

It would suck the life out of you having to track down all that stuff. And just.

So I've told her multiple times, I'm like, when you quit, I'm quitting. Like, I just.

We're going together.

Yeah.

Yeah. That's funny. I got a question for you.

What's the best thing that you've done in the past year that's not mortgage related?



So what's something in either a new habit or that you adopted or you.

That has been not mortgage related?

Yeah, good. Good question. Honestly, I'd say 12 months ago, I was in a bit of a slump.

Like, just like, drained, you know, two. Two young kids.

Like, you're drinking way too much coffee, just trying to, like, juggle everything.

So I would say in.

In December, I. I just pretty much, like, started cutting out booze, eating healthier, drinking 
more water, like, all the basics.

Um, I started working with a natural path just to, like, do some blood tests and like, fine tune
things with some, like.

Yeah, real. Maybe I'll. Afterwards I'll ask you who, because we're in the same community. 
I'm.

I. I've got to find one. So.

Yeah, like, yeah, he's awesome.

So, you know, we're doing like, blood tests every three, four months.

Just like, tweaking things with some, like, vitamin D supplements.

Like, nothing crazy but that, you know, it's almost accountability. Like, you're.

You're now paying for a professional to give you advice.

If you don't actually execute on that, like, what a waste of time and money for everyone.

But since I did that, you know, I went and got my VO2 done, my Dexa, you know, a.

A really good friend got me, like, the Whoop band.

So I've just, like, really started to, like, invest more.

I think we went on parallel tracks together because I've been doing a lot of this stuff, minus 
blood testing, but the.



I got the Whoop and the Dexa and. Yeah, how often are you gonna do the Dexa?

So if anybody doesn't know what is a DEXA scan, somebody's listening.

And this is not mortgage related, but you're.

You're still a human and you should take care of your health.

Yeah, it. It's you know, you lie down in the bed, kind of like an mri. It scans you.

It figures out like bone density, lean mass, visceral fat.

Kind of gives you like your, your biological age in terms of like your health.

And then, you know, I took advice from you like you can just drop that in chat GPT and 
figure out, you know, how you want to train.

But yeah, to, you know, to try and circle back to your original question.

I guess I've just really invested in myself in physical health and mental health.

You know, I took a week off and, and did what's called the Hoffman process.

You know, we won't get into that.

It's like a whole another podcast, but it's, you know, basically you're disconnected from 
society for a week and you just dive into, you know, mental capacity and like, you know, 
generational kind of patterns passed down.

Yeah.

Which to, to be able to take a week off in this industry and not have my phone on and have 
my business partner fully handle everything.

Like that just speaks to how, how integral she is and how much trust you have. Yeah.

So I'm, I'm just in a better headspace physically, mentally, because I've started to invest in 
myself again.

Instead of like, oh, at 6 in the morning, I've got four files on my desk.

Like I'll just, I won't do the workout this morning. I just, I'll clean these files up.



You know, I did that too frequently and you just start digging a hole.

So. Yeah, you start. Yeah. And then what did you. Still drinking coffee.

So you drink it too much or you just, you just limited it?

Still drinking coffee.

So I started to do it like 90 minutes after I wake up and then I cut it completely for a few 
weeks.

And then, you know, somebody sent me like a Instagram post or something that caffeine's 
actually good and these kind of areas of life and I don't know, I'm just always tweaking 
things.

But I try not to have a vice on anything specifically.

Right. Yeah, that's good. I, I probably drink too much coffee right now for sure.

This as you're saying that I'm like, I gotta. Something I gotta, I gotta look at.

I, I went on this, I took a week off.

I told you before, I took, I took seven days off with no Internet for the first time in 19 years 
and it was glorious.

And then I came back and I jumped on my Hume scale and my, my body fat percent was 
higher than I liked.

And I'm like, damn it, I gotta get back to counting macros, which is protein, and, you know, 
keeping my.

So I'm back. It's good. Okay. Because I was.

I was pretty happy with it, you know, a few months ago, but now it's. It slips.

Summertime, you have a few more beer and you just got guests.

And I definitely feel better when I take care.

You know, you can't show up for your clients or anybody if you're not taking care of 
yourself first or your family.



Yeah.

Like, it's. It's law of attraction.

Right.

You start being healthier and like doing a triathlon or something, you're gonna meet clients 
that are also, like, doing those activities.

You know, if you're just sitting on the couch, drinking beer and like, not that there's 
anything wrong with that, but, like, those are probably the clients you're just naturally 
gonna, like, be attracted to.

So. Yeah, you just want to change the circle a little bit.

Yeah, that's good. Anything I didn't ask you about that you think would be helpful for 
listeners?

No.

I mean, I think the podcast is obviously kind of a tough one to, to just dip your toe in or just 
start by yourself.

But, yeah, the lesson I think I want to take away from that is just that, like, authentic 
conversation, you know, and like, you pointed out when to say no and just really focusing on
serving the client, like, put yourself in their position.

So. Yeah, right. What would you do? And I'd say that the clients.

If you were my cousin, here's what I would do.

Or you're my, like, based on their age or my aunt, they're older than me. And I'd always.

Then I would.

I would psychologically sit, like, move them from across the table to me to beside me, and 
I'd think about, okay, what would I say to my family member?

And then I go from that frame and what I found that it helps. They actually feel it.

But it also makes me put aside my, okay, what am I going to make from this, you know, this, 
this deal or whatever.



And I feel like that's helpful.

And even on that point, like, what are you going to make from this deal?

Like, honestly, that's, that's a bit of my strategy call with them too.

Like, when we're talking rates and terms and products, I'm like, hey, here's the three, four, 
five year fix.

Here's the variable.

And sometimes if they're coming out of like a five year fix with whatever their, their past 
lender, like, well, why'd you do a five year, like, oh, that's all they presented you, you know, 
like that bank actually like we get paid more on a five year, you know, like.

So I really try and educate clients on like the whole picture of what we do instead of just, 
hey, this.

And sometimes it's too much.

Right.

People don't want to know that. But those are probably not the.

You have to gauge the client a little bit. But you're, you're right.

Like, that's a, that's a good point.

I mean, I never paid attention to the commission when I worked either. It was just take.

Do what would take care of the client and the money took care of itself is what I always 
thought.

And, but that's good. Okay, and where can people find you online?

Yeah, venturemortgages.com on Instagram, Venture Mortgages and then Colonial Real 
Estate podcast on all the podcast platforms.

YouTube, if they, if there was one episode.

Okay, which, if there's one episode that you think our listeners should listen to, which one 
should I send them to?



Oh, man, that's tough. Okay, so we've done a few with Brendan Ogmanson. Those are all 
great.

We did one with Scott, which was also awesome.

I gotta say that there was one in, I think it was January 2025.

So pretty recently with this guy, Brady McDonald's, super cool Canadian, moved to the 
States, abundant style mindset and just like really focuses on physical health out of 
everything else.

So.

Okay, we'll put a link to that one in the show notes because if we're going to send people 
there, let's send them to one that you think, hey, this is one that I gives a representation of 
what we're, what we're about and everything.

So great.

Yeah, if you can send that, if you can send a link to that one to, to me and I'll make sure our 
team puts it on there.

Yeah, absolutely.

Okay. Thanks, brother. Thanks for chatting with me.

Yeah, thank you. Appreciate it. Have a good one.

Hey, thanks again for listening. Let me ask you a question.

So what would your business look like if you stopped selling and started being trusted by all
your clients?

I'd imagine for most people to be like, wow, this would be a lot easier. It'd be a lot more fun.

I'd probably even have a little less stress. Taylor just gave you a blueprint.

And if you want to listen to. I recently just dropped an episode that I had done in the past.

I said, what would I do if I, if I move to your city tomorrow in Canada or the U.S. and I had to 
start my mortgage business from scratch.



I share with you the three things that I would do.

I'm going to put a link to that episode, go back and listen to it, because I recorded that four 
years ago originally, Taylor did it and he's, he's living proof of just find a plan, execute on it, 
and then get the benefits of that plan.

If you found this useful, I'm going to ask you, do me a favor, please share it with friends, 
send it to the mortgage brokers, hey, check this out.

Share it with a realtor friend and say, hey, look, why don't we do something like this?

Because Taylor, one of the benefits that I think one of the tweaks that he did, I did my show 
solo, which is harder.

For sure. You have a partner, a co host.

It makes it easier, makes it cheaper and easier, and you can expand your reach.

But send this episode to a realtor partner and say, hey, check this out.

And the other one that I'm putting say, let's talk. Maybe we should do something.

Because I'm telling you, this is one of the easiest ways for you to build a massive network in 
your community as well as build trust with clients.

And I think it's an absolute no brainer. But hey, thanks for listening.

As I always say, there's no problem in your mortgage business that someone else hasn't 
resolved.

Your problem is who's got the answer. This podcast is designed to provide some of those 
answers.

Thanks for listening and I will see you on the next episode.