



Think the market's your biggest challenge. Think again. In this episode, Meredith Kaminski and I discuss how making some tweaks to your business model can not only skyrocket your success and make it easier, but improve your output. Today I chat with Meredith Kaminski.

She's a mortgage broker with one link based out of Winnipeg, Manitoba. I've been in the business since 2008 and a couple things that we cover, why it's seldom the market that's actually the problem, but your business model, and it actually may be the thing that's holding you back.

We talk about a couple changes that you can make to increase the number of referrals and, and how to unlock referral sources, databases. And if you've got referral sources and they got databases, you're going to want access to those. I think you're going to love this conversation.

Hey, I'm Scott Peckford and this is the out of Mortgage Brokering podcast. And it's every week we talk to top mortgage brokers across the country, Canada and the U.S. to look for ideas that you can apply to your mortgage business.

It's my belief that there's no problem in your mortgage business that someone else hasn't already solved. Your problem is who's got the answer. And our goal is, with this podcast, is to give you some of those answers. And before I jump in this episode, I want to give a shout out to OwnWell.

This is an amazing new tool for Canadian listeners at Ownwell ca and it allows you to basically monitor your clients buying power as well as their home equity on a monthly basis. It's got a massively high open rate for the consumer and it gives you lots to talk about.

It's based off of a tool called homebot in the US and it's in the US it works like crazy. It's been around for a while and actually I did an interview with the CEO of Homebot when it first came out and I was like, is this coming to Canada? And he said, nah, I don't know. They never did.

And so thankfully, Omwell has now done that. Go to Omwell CA Scott, if you want to find out more. And let's have a listen to this conversation with Meredith.

Hey, Meredith, welcome back to the show. Thanks, Scott. It's great to see you.

Yeah, it's been a minute since we chatted and you said that you went back and you had a listen to what a previous episode that we had done and talk about some process stuff. And so I'm excited to chat with you.

But before we get into that, tell me a little bit of who you are and how you got in the mortgage biz.

Kate. So I am born and raised in Winnipeg. I grew up in Alberta but moved back to Winnipeg working actually for MCAP.

On the commercial lending side.

So my background is commercial lending. And then I moved into the residential side and joined OneLake in 2008.

So I've been on the residential side for many years.

Right. And so I was actually born in Manitoba as well. We were born and raised here. I was born but not raised. My dad moved me and not long after I was born. But let's have a story. Okay, so in the mortgage biz and then you're very process driven.

You've got a great business that you've built here, you've got a team that helps you support, which we'll talk a bit about that. And so maybe share with me like what are some of the. And I what I want to ask about some process improvements or things that you've done and especially in the last year.

The market's always shifting and if you're, you don't, we don't just leave our business alone. So what's some of the things that you've done to improve or in your process in the last six to 12 months?

Yeah, so we like to, we're very trigger driven. So we use, I think it's important to pick a system that you like.

And make sure you're actually using it. Right. So a lot of people sign up.
For systems and don't actually use them.

Or they sign up for multiple. And it's like having multiple gym memberships and going to none. It's like, didn't you do you any good?

Yeah, yeah.

What are you paying for? Right.

So we have our system set up where there's multiple triggers based on the board. So we have different boards, we have.
An active deal board, we have a pre approval board, we have an anniversary board, a renewal board, a leads board. So as the client card moves across the board, it creates different triggers for us. So that's really key when you're doing a lot of volume to make sure things don't get missed.

And it also triggers the different member. Of our team to do the task.
So they have a kind of a lane. If you think of it that, okay, it's in this, it moves over. If it's whether it's a renewal, it moves into this next stage. That means that the trigger lets somebody in your team know that they've got to do XYZ activities. Correct. Exactly.

Yeah.

And so what's a trigger that you have recently updated on one? Like maybe you can think of one of those boards because. And if you guys are listening to this, really we're talking those Kanban boards that have.

And lots of software has this essentially it's like the contact record and then you can drag it across. It's almost like I always think of like a football field. You're on the 10 yard line, you're trying to get into the end zone at the end.

Yeah.

And you just. But in order to get to those milestones, you got to get certain tasks completed or certain activities done. But what's a trigger that you guys have updated because of something you found? Because that's how I find. You find an issue, then you go back and you fix the trigger.

So you think of one.

Yeah, that makes sense. I would say one of the ones that we've updated probably in the last year, year and a half is just.

When we do our Google review request.

So. So we do that right when the client is happiest. Right when the deal has been approved. And the policy instructed before they start packing, moving.
So I find that's helped with us getting more reviews. Right.
Checking in to make sure the lawyer has instructions and the instructions are correct. That's a key one. Following up with the client prior to funding and after funding.

Those are some of the key triggers that we like to make sure we're checking in on.

And then. So tell me about what you have for a team that you. And who does what on the team?

So it's me and my partner Dave. And then we have an associate and an assistant. Yeah.
So Dave and I do, we bring in the referrals, we do the underwriting and submission. Our associate does the processing of the application, collecting all the documents, giving us a full package to review.

And then on the back end she helps with signing packages, funding conditions, just finishing the file off to get it ready to close. And then her assistant does all her social media, all the back end sort of admin stuff, all the anniversary and renewal letters.

And are these both full time? Yes. Yeah.
Okay. And you guys work in an office remotely? Three of us work in the office, yeah.
Which I prefer, honestly. Like I like to be around people.

So for me that works. But just having the three of us in the room who are working actively on the files I find is really key because it's easy for communication, things move faster. You can solution things a lot quicker that way.

So that's worked for Us, our other assistant works from home, but she's very process driven, so.

Right. So she has certain tasks that get triggered and then she's able to do that remotely without having to be in your office for sure.

Yeah.

And then so you, and so it sounds like you and Dave, do you do the same role? So then if you go on vacation, when you go on vacation, can you actually be on vacation or do you still have to work? What happens to take up your files or what do you have? You guys figure that out.

So just. We try to take an actual holiday. So I do like to check my. Emails in the morning though, just to clean up anything.
Yeah.

But yeah, we, we do our best.

To cover for each other and let each other have a break because that's key.

Right. And we were chatting before that. Both 75 of your business is from past clients or client referrals. And a good chunk of your business right now is renewals. So what are you finding?

Let's talk about renewals because I think it's a very, you know, there's a lot of talk about these gold rush of renewals and some people seem to be having more success. But. So what do you find is useful or what's been working for you on the renewal conversations?

I find a lot of clients have anxiety around the renewal, especially with all. The media about the higher rates.
So we've done a good job of building those relationships and keeping in contact with our database. So I find people are reaching out really early. Like we're doing calls right now for 2025 just to sort of be more realistic as to what that looks like.

So would you be doing, is it you or one of your associates that's making the calls and then booking you in or what? How are you? What's happening there?

So we reach out nine months out.

Right.

So. And that would be our assistant that does that. So by email and by mail. And then we have triggers at six months and at three months and then just based on the type of file and who it is, because we're engaging those clients, those game clients are engaging us back.

So that's when we're booking calls.

Right. Okay. And then, so then they, you book calls, they basically you're using this to get people into your calendar. You'll do a conversation with them. And so the anxiety. So if I'm a client, I love them to like role play a little bit.

If I'm the client and I'm feeling anxious, what does that conversation look like? So if I've been Your client for a while. And I'm like, hey, I'm a little bit nervous. And I heard rates are going to be, you know, what, what, what, what do you, how do you sort of alleviate that anxiety?

For me, I do the actual math. So like, understanding where your balance is going to.

So bring data. I heard one of my coaches say, bring the data, not the drama. Because the drama is like, let's just do the math. And then, you know.

Right, yeah. So if you actually do the math based on where the balance is, what. The M is and where the payment.
Is, um, it sort of relieves that anxiety, I find for a lot of clients, just because, you know, it is. An increase, but it isn't as bad as they think it might be.
Right.

And then, you know, just understanding that, you know, you know, is there a reason you might need to refinance? Is there debt?

So what. And what kind of questions would you ask me? So again, if I'm a client, I've got a mortgage and let's say it's conventional, I got some equity. Just again, what kind of questions would you ask me to. Because what you're doing. Doing is uncovering if there's a possible other.

Another problem or something you can solve.

Yeah, exactly. And that's.

And I'm putting you on the spot. Here, but I know you can.
You've done this a long time.

I know you can handle it. So if you can, just like. And I'm not expecting you to be like, you know, here's my full script. But just maybe for our listeners, I think it's helpful for them to think about.

These are the kind of questions you should be asking on a renewal conversation, not just, hey, what's the rate? And because you may be missing a bigger issue.

Yeah, for sure. I think you want to understand what. Their plan is for the house.
Right.

That's one a lot of people miss.

If you think people, if people are.

Planning to move in the next two to three years, so what will be.

An answer somebody will give you that will make you go make your kind of, you know, your radar go up? What do you think?

Just even the thought that they, you. Know, they're planning to have a family.
And they need a bigger home or they do want to actually move. A lot of people actually say that they do have plans to upgrade.
So lots of it, lots of the clients actually say, no, this is a forever house, or this is a 5. To 10 year house.
But just figuring out those clients that.

May want to move soon. Right.
That, that Changes what the advice is. Right. So.
And then just understanding is there any reason they would want to increase the. Balance of the mortgage?
So is there any stress with debt? Is there any renovations that might need to be done? Do they want to buy a family.

Second home or cabin? Right.
Do they want to invest in rental properties? Because that's.
Is there a common theme that you've noticed? I mean, you know, without using names, since in numbers. I'm not going to. But if you think of any. What is a common thing that you've seen happen frequently? If you think back over the last kind of six months or so, I.

Think we're seeing more debt than we used to see last year especially. We saw a lot of bad credit and a lot of debt last year.
So I think the generation now sort of views debt differently than we used to. So people are okay carrying debt. You know, I'll pay for it on.

My credit card and then I'll deal with it later. Sort of attitude which catches up to. People and that's where you find.
Sounds like a government. I'm sorry, but I'm not going to get political and I'm not all governments are like this. I'm not saying it's any one side. They're all the same.

Yeah, for sure.

Yeah. Just like they're, you know, a lot of files actually turn into refinances just. Because there is a need there. That makes sense.
Right. So either there's some debt consolidation, buying a cottage, buying a second vehicle or whatever that looks some other situation. But without asking those uncovering questions you're really missing, you're not actually serving your client properly.

Yeah. Like if you go into the conversation.

Thinking this is going to be a transfer, I'm just going to get in. The system and you do the credit.
Check and there's 70 or 80% thousand of debt. Well, very quickly, that shouldn't be a transfer file. Right.
That should be a conversation.

So, and if, just out of curiosity, if I was a client, let's say if I'm having a family, I'm not. I'm, you know, I've got great kids and I don't, I do not want any more children. But if I was say a young person, that, and I was. What kind of. How would you guide me differently?

If I was say in a condo or a townhouse and I was planning to buy a house, like, what would, how would you. What would that look like? Again, I'm curious what you do there.

So just on looking to upgrade.

Yeah. So let's say I'm in the place right now and I say look, we're gonna have kids in a couple years. I don't think this is like I'm looking at probably selling and buying in two years. You know, if you can't plan all these things perfectly but those. What would.

How would you advise me differently? What would. I'm just curious what that would look like.

Yeah. So I, I would advise either on.

Increasing savings or increasing repayments on the current mortgage.

Right.

Accumulate more equity towards the purchase. Right.
And then you know, not that it's.

Always in people's control, but increasing income. If it's option.

Right. And then what about things like. Do you think about like porting the mortgage, you know, moving it? Is that something you consider somebody's like, like the existing one or would you look at something with a. Would you, would you look at options for shorter, different terms?

What would you there.

Yes, absolutely. Yeah. So. So if they're planning to move in two or three years, I wouldn't recommend.

Someone take a five year fixed. Right.
Unless rates were really, really low. Possibly then that might be a port in the future. Right. But plan for something that you can actually port.
Exactly.

If, if that's the case then you know, according increase type of thing.

Yeah, it always, I always caution people though it comes down to the math. At the time because of course is very specific. Right.
So you have to, all the timelines have to.

They are tricky. I've, you know, I've done them but it's definitely. They don't happen very often. So like.

Yeah, well in the math needs to make sense.

Right.

So I'm very numbers driven.

If the numbers make sense. That's the advice. Right.

So we do our best to give best advice whether that's with us or.

With whoever the current institution is based on where the math is. Right, right.

And I know I didn't get you to pull your stats on this, but if you were to like and it can be an estimate if, if you're what percentage of your business think is renewal refi right now in the current market and again this will change over time.

Yeah, yeah. I would say purchases maybe 25 to.

35% And the rest would be refinances and transfers. Right.
There's probably a few.

And would you say you have more refis or more transfers? I would say more refis than trans.
Yeah. But it's been my experience too is that a lot of. I mean sometimes the straight up there's not anything new to do. The best thing is to do nothing but sign, right?

Yeah. You have to be adding value. Right.

There's no point to interject or put the client through the process if the current lender makes sense and they're competitive. Yeah.

I always tell people, like, what would you do if it was you? Most of. Most of us wouldn't want to go through the process of getting a loan if it didn't. There wasn't some new loan if it didn't make sense necessarily.

But yeah, there's lots of business out there. Right.

And there is. Yeah, that's true. So, okay, let's go back to pro. I went down. So I always follow my curiosity. And you said. Because I'm like, oh, you're having success with this. I was going to ask you. So talk to me more. You had. You've got some of these. What did you call them?

Process sheets.

So explain to me what you mean by process sheets and how do they help? So we just like to sort of.
Make the process more clear for clients. Right. So it's, you know, we do it every day.
Clients don't.

So we have different process process sheets. During different stages of the process.
So like pre approval, as an example, we send out a pre approval process. Sheet just so they understand what they're next.
So is that basically like outlining? Here's you're getting a pre approval. Here's what's the next step? Sort of like onto kind of. Is that what it looks like?

Yeah, this is what we do. And this is the process process. Same on the closing side. So we have process sheets for closing based on it being a refinance, whether it's a transfer, if there's a lawyer.

Involved, if it's a purchase. Just because those processes are slightly different,. Just so the client understands this is.
What you're going to need to do next. Right.
We talk through it obviously with them as well. But those sheets just help to sort. Of alleviate or answer questions for people. So.
Right, okay, that makes sense. And then I also like this idea. You have these different boards. So these like Kanban boards for the different types of products. Products or, you know, solutions that you're doing. So you've got like you said, the anniversary one, you've got.
What else?

There's the renewal, there's a purchase. What was the other one? Here we have a lead sport.
So it starts in the lead sport.

Right. Starts in the lead to figure out where it go and then it goes into one of these other ones that then it moves through that whole process. Is there any Other tools or things that you found that you've started to use or made adjustments to in. In the last couple years.

Just trying to think through what else. I always like to mention pre lead.
Because I think people forget about that.

So if you get a referral and the realtor says, I told Joe Smith to call you and you don't hear from Joe, you don't have Joe's contact. If you don't kind of put a.

Trigger to remind yourself to call those. People and just say, hey, I never.
Heard from Joe Smith.

How often do you actually. Do you take up that lead that doing that second touch gets you the lead?

It actually helps a lot not drop off. So a lot of our pre leads.

Do actually turn into leads. I than we hear from those people,. But the ones that we don't, it's.
Definitely saved us some deals for sure.

Right. So it's such a simple step. So essentially what we're saying is that you. It's a realtor says, hey, Meredith, I gave your name to Tom and Sally. And you're like, well, they didn't email an introduction, so now you're waiting to hear from them. But you haven't.

So then when would you follow up with that realtor? So if I'm the realtor and I said, I give your name, Tom and Sally, they're going to call you. What. When would. What would be

your next touch point?

We usually give it a few weeks,.

Realistically, because Tom and Sally may not be ready. So.

Right. And then you'll cycle back to the realtor. Hey, I haven't heard from Tom and Sally. And then. Oh, right, Shoot. Yes. I was just talking the other day or whatever. And then something. You go from there.

Yeah. And then you kind of get the backstory and you know, you know, Thomas, Allie just weren't ready.

They're going to reach out to you.

You're on vacation, who knows something's going on, whatever. Okay. And then is there any other. What are the things you think you do that helps make your business run better?

We try to follow the same system and process for every client. So everyone's treated the same. Everyone goes through the same process. I think that's important.

It doesn't matter the size of the transaction.

So that, you know, just thinking back to the $25 million blueprint that we did back in, I guess, 2017.

Yeah.

You know, setting up that customer journey and understanding what that client's going to. Go through is key.
So that's important.

Important to us. Just trying to think of Something else that we haven't touched on.

Part of our process is sending thank you cards. So we thank every referral by mail. So we have great printed cards. We make donations to Tree Canada for referrals, and then we send, like, how many.

You guys track how many trees you. Planted on an annual basis?

Yeah.

Okay. You know. Yeah.
You don't know what that is, but that's kind of. It's kind of a cool thing because, you know, uh, I like that. So you do the thing you said, you do the thank you. You plant the tree. What was the last thing you're gonna say I picked off?

No worries. Yeah. So we do thank you cards for clients as well. So that card says something different.

And we do annual charitable donations as well and deals, so. And that charity changes every year, but.

Yeah, but it's just something different. We used to do Starbucks cards for,.
Like, thank yous for referrals, but at the end of the day, we sort. Of felt like we wanted to give back and.
Right. And people like most. Yeah, it's. It's. And if it. If it's authentic to you and your brand, it's better to do what's authentic than something that someone else does. I want to ask what you talked about breaking the process because. So I'm sure this. I've seen this happen.

Maybe you can talk to this. Is that sometimes when it's a family or friend, there's a. There's a temptation to kind of bypass your normal process. Have you ever done that? And if so, like. Or do you. Are you just, like, super disciplined? You never break your process?

Yeah, not specifically with family, but, you know, every once in a while, people.

Put pressure on you to maybe not give you that last piece of document, documentation, whatever that is.

I just find that there's lots of nuances. We're asking for income exceptions on lots. Of files right now, and it's better to figure it out ahead of time.
So, you know, although there are.

I'm sure there's times in the past. That we've broken from that process. It's better to just.
It's not that often. So. Yeah, I. I would do it for me, my mistake would be like, oh, it's my friend, but they end up getting a worse experience than a stranger. And then they'd be like, I thought you're good at your job, man. What?

Like.

And so I found that you just have to stick to it no matter what. Don't let them. 100%. Yeah. Yeah. You don't want to find out that,.
You know, maybe your friend Joe has cra. Dead only. But he never gave you a notice of assessment, and he found that out at the ninth hour.

And now you look like. Now. Yeah.
And now you're stressing out because you said everything looked fine, but now it's not. You know, and all that whole catastrophe that happens.

Yeah, it's just better to sort of.

Uncover what that hidden. It might be ahead of time. Right.
So.

Okay, so let's chat about lead stuff. So what have you done in the last sort of 6 to 12 months that have been that you found healthcare? I mean, most of your business is past clients, obviously your database marketing.

But is there anything you've done that you're like, hey, this actually worked pretty well. Although we don't do it as much as we should. Just picking up the phone, that actually.

Makes a big difference. So, so.
And who are you phoning?

Past clients, referral sources. We have triggers for anniversary phone calls in our database. Renewal phone calls.
Honestly, I just find if you just.

Start picking up the phone, if you ever have a bit of a slow period, it just makes the phone ring more.

Right. You just get. There's more opportunities that come just from back to basics. Right. Yeah, yeah, I totally agree. And then. So what do you do on the database side? So you said you send out that the anniversary. What. What are you doing to keep these clients?

Obviously you create a great experience, but there must be some communications on the back end. What are you doing with that?

So we have a plan set up.

Based on the term of the mortgage. So there's different triggers at different points that go out.

We do a newsletter every couple months. We do a contest actually. Every couple months? Yeah, Just to engage people.
Like, so would that be like. We'll give me an example of something that you guys have done that. That people were. That they responded with.

So the one we're doing right now is on Halloween. So, like your favorite Halloween costume or.
The, you know, how did you pick your costume?

Like, just, you know, tell us about what you like about Halloween. And we're getting random pictures from clients of funny costumes.

And so it's making people engage for. Different reasons, which is nice.
Right.

It's fun to reconnect with people in a different way.

And then what would. What do you do for a prize? How do you figure what you do there?

So what's been popular is picking a local venue. So we'll say 100 to the venue of your choice. Local.
Right.

And sometimes we do different themes. Maybe it's a garden theme just depends. On the time of year.
Halloween, we're doing candy.

So you know, a bunch of candy for Halloween to give out, that kind of thing.

Well, and if you're engaging with your clients with something, like you said, that's already on their minds, it's way easier to get their attention than hey, here's my newsletter about, you know, they don't. Like people only think about their mortgage every several, you know, multiple.

It's multiple years ago by. They don't think about it on a. On every week, every month kind of thing.

For sure, yeah.

We, we think about it far more often than.

Because it's what we do. But it's. So it makes sense and then. So I like the idea of using themes to engage with your. With your past line. So anything else? You see the newsletter. What else?

Trying to think of how else we're. Dave and I are both in business groups, so just, you know, rounding out where, you know, where we find business.

And where we can help people. So our goal isn't to sell people,.
It's to serve people. So we want to find, you know,.

And find out just by listening to what they're saying, you know, what they need and then sourcing the best solution for them. So actually being in different groups with different.

So what kind is this like B and I groups or what kind of groups are they? Yeah, yeah, we're both in B network,.
So different ones though. Separate ones. Yeah.
Right. Okay. Yeah, those, those have been. I heard those can be good. So what you. What do you think? What, what kind of. How much business would you say you think you get a year from being in a B and I? Because some people are. Some people hate on them and other people love them.

But it's probably more about how you A, the group matters, but also how you show up matters for sure.

100%. I think it's mindset too. So, you know, we have. We have a really good core group.
So our group has a lot of great energy. You know, I've helped people in the. Group that themselves, so it's easy for people to refer me as well.
So I, I would.

How long you been in there? About four years.
Almost five years. Yeah.

Yeah.

It is a great way to meet a bunch of other business owners that have non. That have, you know, non competing businesses with you.

For sure. Yeah. And clients are looking for those services as well. Right.
So it's good to have, you know, that referral for that client that may. Need whatever the services. Right. So.
Right. Yeah. That's really good. Is there anything that I didn't ask you that you think I should have asked you, that our listeners might find helpful?

Not that I can think of. I think, honestly, it's kind of boring. Like, what we do is just follow the same process, you know, make sure we hit the right trigger points, make.

Sure we're following up, make sure we're. Keeping in touch, but just make sure.
You're actually doing it right. It's key to, you know, where all. Of our businesses come from. We do our best to service the.
Client the best way we can. We answer the phone. Right.

That's key. You get the deal if you answer the phone. You don't answer the phone. You know, they call the next person. Right.
So I think that's a lot of what we do and just, you know, showing up and finding the right solution.

And always giving best advice, whether that's with us or someone else.

I have said. I've said, you know, that the best movie for mortgage brokers is Groundhog Day,

because that's what it is. The best mortgage brokers. It's actually not like. It's not that. It's not every day, it's like the same. Every day, do the same thing.

And the more consistent you are, the better you get it. Just like in Groundhog Day, he actually got better at that same day. You know, by the end of the movie, he was catching the kid falling out of the tree.

And so, like, it's the same with us as more mortgage brokers, that if you do it the same thing repeatedly, you get outsized results.

Absolutely.

So I think that's totally great. So where can people find you online? So our website is mortgagesdoneright Ca.
So that's where they can find us. And we're all over social media.

Yeah. And we'll have links in the show notes. And so if anybody wants to find you or connect with you. Thank you so much for coming. Chat with me again. I really appreciate it. And thanks for being part of the roadshow and.

And, you know, getting to do a live podcast, which I have not done very many of. So thank you so much.

Yeah, this is awesome.

Well, thank you for having me, and it's great to see you again.

Hey, thanks again for listening. Hopefully you got some ideas, some nuggets from my conversation with Meredith. You know, the big thing I find is that often people that are very good at this business, they. A lot of things that they do are just second nature.

Meredith was no.

No exception to this because she's like, I don't really do anything special, Scott. But as you dig into it more, you're like, well, you're doing this.

A lot of times what someone does consistently, they no longer think that it's special, but actually that consistency is the key that makes the whole thing work. So if you're listening to this, give me a chance. Two things. One, go follow me on social media.

I've been working building a social account, sharing tips and tricks and tactics, helping your

mortgage business. Just go verify me on there. You can click on this podcast episode to find that. Also, we have an email that we.

Put in every week.

We think it's the most useful newsletter for mortgage brokers. We share with you three things to check out from the last week, two idea content, ideas to copy and then one idea from me and it's very sustainable, synced and there's tons of value in it. Go check that out.

You can find that on my social profile as well as if you click on this podcast episode. Thanks again for listening and I will see you on the next episode.
