I love mortgage brokering.

Episode 84, The only podcast for brokers by brokers.

I Love Mortgage Brokering.

Will inspire you to up your mortgage business.

Join your host, Scott Pegford.

Hi, Broker Nation.

I introduce our guest today, Chad Oyenhart.

He's a broker with dlc, Aegis Mortgage Services.

He owns the company.

He's based in Richmond, bc.

I actually met Chad at a DLC national conference.

We.

We're both shopping at Aritzia.

Okay.

Our wives are shopping at Aritzia.

And I looked at him.

I'm like, this guy looks like a mortgage broker.

He thought the same thing.

So I introduced myself and then found out that he's a big producer.



Been in the business a long time.

And I'm like, dude, we got to get you on the show.

So I'm pumped.

Chad, are you ready to rock?

You betcha.

Awesome.

And so actually, I was in Aritzia way longer than you.

You guys left and came back and we were there for, I felt like forever.

But my wife, yeah, I think we.

Took a little rip around the village there and we wanted to come back and you guys were 
still in there having your shopping spree?

Yeah, it wasn't me.

I mean, there's nothing in there that fits me, but.

Okay, cool, man.

So tell us a little about yourself and your business.

So a little bit about myself.

I'm married, been married about five years.

We just had our first.

I think I mentioned that to you as well, when we were in Westley.

Our first baby little boy.

We named him Jack after my dad.

And I've been in the business now for 12 years.



As you mentioned.

I'm the owner of Dominion franchise in Richmond Aegis, and we got.

There's five other brokers under me, and we're just a little boutique brokerage right on the 
water there in Steveston.

So how did you get into the mortgage business?

Because no one that I've met anyway says when they're in kindergarten, when I grow up, I 
want to be a mortgage broker.

So what was your path to 12 years ago to getting into brokering?

Yeah, no doubt.

Not even kindergarten.

I think grade 12.

Most people will come out not knowing what a mortgage broker does.

But I was spinning my wheels after high school, after a little bit of university, I went to way 
to Australia for about a year.

And when I got back, my dad, my old man, who was working with RBC for 32 years, was let 
go in 2000 for somebody younger and cheaper and was too young to retire at the time.

He was 48 and he bumped into an old colleague of his who was brokering, and he thought it 
would be a great opportunity for him.

He had a ton of clients, ton of contacts, so he started doing it.

And that was 2000, end of 2000, early 2001.

And when I got back in 2003 from Australia for my brother's wedding, he was already flying
in the business.

And he just sat me down after a couple of days and he said, listen, you know, let me show 
you this.

I think it'd be something you'd be good at.



And I liked what he was doing.

He walked me through everything.

I thought right away there was a few ways I could help him, you know, just being a little bit 
more computer savvy, cleaning up some processes, things like that.

And so I took the course and got started.

Cool.

And then.

So you run the family business now, right?

Yeah.

So in 2010, dad passed away a little bit unexpectedly, rather shockingly.

And my brother and I were both in the business at the time as well as a few other brokers.

And so I ended up taking it over in 2010 after he passed away.

So, yeah, I've been running it now for the last five years.

Yeah, actually, I remember hearing about that.

I didn't know you at the time, but I had heard about that story.

So I'm sorry to hear about.

But your dad.

Yeah, no, thanks.

I mean, obviously a little bit shocking.

He was well known by a lot of the older guys in the business.

Macklem, Gary Morris.

Gary, you know, personally recruited him over to DLC back before when we were with 
Global Mortgage here in Whitelock.



And, you know.

Yeah, I mean, it was a bit of a shock and unexpected, but, you know, for me, with all those 
guys, you know, he carried a big name.

I was able to get great support coming out of that and taking it over, so.

So before we dive more into your story, I'd love to.

I always like to ask about quotes because I love how quotes are memorable.

They're portable, they can help keep you on track.

I have add, so it's a great for, you know, a guy like me to keep me focused.

So can you tell me a quote that's really had an impact on your life or business?

Yeah, you bet.

I mean, one after, mainly after kind of what I went through with dad, one of the ones.

And I put this on the bottom of my email signature.

It's a Chuck Polleniak, Charles Polleniak quote.

And the goal isn't to live forever.

The goal is to create something that will.

And after My dad passed away.

A lot of it was me really having a drive to be successful in this business to keep his legacy.

He started this company, he started this business, he brought me in.

He really gave me a career and a life and something that now I've been doing for 12 years.

So a lot of my drive is based on that quote and keeping that legacy that he created alive.

So that's a great quote by the way.

The goal isn't to live forever.



The goal is to create something that will.

So how do you apply that philosophy on a day to day basis?

So is it something that influences your day to day when you're thinking about decisions and 
stuff?

Yeah, maybe not so much day to day, but it's always in the back of my mind and how I live 
life and how I operate.

I think as brokers, we got one of the best jobs in the world and we are paid very well for 
what we do.

So I give a lot back.

I give a lot back not just in money, but in time.

A few years ago I sat down with a gentleman, Sunny Leung from BC Children's Hospital 
foundation and came up with.

We kind of worked out the mortgage broker giving program.

I know a lot of other brokers do this in different levels, but I really worked with him on 
starting something where I would do $100 from every completed file to BC Children's 
Hospital.

My dad was very influential and with his time as well.

Like to give a lot of time.

He sat on various boards from BC Children's Hospital Foundation.

He gave.

He sat on the board of the Michael J.

Fox the Heart to Heart Croquet tournament which supported D.C. special Olympics.

So I kind of started following in those footsteps.

I've now joined the Richmond soccer board.



And it's just something that I am always mindful of trying to give back and find ways to 
create goodwill in business.

So, you know, I mean, yeah, it's not always prevalent in every day, but it's always top of 
mind.

You know, if you can help somebody outside of the poker world or even one of your clients 
with, you know, something you're not getting paid on, paying a little bit of it forward is 
definitely a way that I operate life for sure.

And so when did you start this mortgage broker giving program?

This is back in actually probably 2011.

The $100 profile was 2011 and it probably went on till about 20, late 2013, early 2014.

The program, it doesn't really go anymore.

BC Children's Hospital changed a few things on their foundation side and it became A little 
bit more onerous to do it.

So I still give money, but not every deal as it was set out.

Like I said, the program changed with how they were operating with the thank yous and the
cards that were going out.

So that ended up ceasing, but lots of other ways still.

Right, Right.

That's cool, man.

It's good to actually be the, you know.

You know, the whole.

You just mentioned pay it forward about being systematic about it or having some kind of a 
float otherwise.

It's kind of like you always have these great intentions, but then nothing happens.

Right.



You're kind of like.

Or it happens inconsistently.

And that's great.

One cool thing.

So at the DLC conference, as a side thing, I went to that and I'm not part of dlc, but there's 
some awesome people at dlc and it was cool to see how many different ways you guys at 
DLC give back to the community.

Like, I was very.

It was great to see because there's, like, things that you guys do in the communities, and I 
thought that was a good thing.

They're not just thinking about, you know, building a bigger business, so.

Totally.

Yeah.

And, you know, that's something that I will say is a good testament to Gary as well.

We joined DLC in 2008.

We've been around for a while.

Even back then, that was always something that he talked about was.

Back then, it was a little bit more on a personal level.

But doing what you do is great, but you got to be able to find a way to give back and create a 
stronger community.

And it's great to see what he's been able to do with the breakfast for learning and bullying 
ends here.

And a lot of the things he's taken on and the head office team has taken on themselves.

As an owner and as a broker in the company, you feel proud that you're involved in it for 
sure.



Right?

Yeah.

It's awesome.

So I'm going to ask now about failure, because I know that you've been doing this for 12 
years.

I'm sure that there's been some failures over that time, but looking back, there's always a 
lesson, the failure, if you take the time to look at it.

So can you share something you failed at?

But.

And then the lesson that you learned.

Yeah, for sure.

This one was a hard one for me.

After thinking about this one for a little bit over time after dad passed away again, I mean, 
that was one of those dividing roads, you know, where you.

You have a point in your life.

And you can go one of two ways.

My brother and I tried to take the business over together, and that was one of the failures 
we had, is we weren't able to make it work together.

We struggled operating the company together.

We had different ways of making ideas to make it work, different paths wanting to go in.

I'd been working side by side my dad for the six prior years, the seven prior years to him 
passing away, and Kevin was working a little bit more out on his own.

So we had different ways of operating that wore, you know, we wore down on each other, 
and the challenges were high to kind of get over the humps together and make it work.



So, yeah, we failed at making that business work together.

And Kevin ended up going his own way outside of the company.

One of the things I learned from that family, you know, even though we went through that, 
there were some hard times and, you know, we didn't talk to each other for a few months, 
but, you know, family always comes back and, you know, there's really nothing more 
important.

We've.

We've been able to rebound that relationship and get through it all.

And, you know, I'd like to say emotionally, we're both stronger today for it, for sure.

Yeah.

That's interesting.

Working with family, that's definitely something that can.

Is wrought with challenges, but it's important to preserve the relationship even over the, 
like the family relationship, over the, you know, if the working together thing doesn't work, 
that's.

That's fine as long as you can, you know, keep the family relationship intact.

Yeah, and that's.

And that's where we came at it from was, you know, that first conversation that we both had
about why it wasn't working and what, you know, we were starting to get to the point 
where I don't want to say we were resentful of each other, but it was.

Getting to the point was very difficult working for each other.

And that first conversation we had was both, at least on the same page of we didn't want 
our family life to be affected, especially after what had happened with dad.

The last thing we needed was two brothers now not talking to each other and dividing the 
family even more.

And we were on the same page there.



So.

Yeah, no, it is very important to make sure that those family dynamics and family 
relationships stay intact.

Totally agree.

I'm going to ask you about processes and systems you kind of alluded to a little bit earlier 
about how when you started working with your dad, that was one of the areas that you 
were able to help him and I like to break down kind of two parts of the business.

There's the administrative side and then there's the sales and marketing side.

So first on the administrative side, can you share something that maybe wasn't working as 
well as you would have liked and then a tweak that you made.

In the outcome that you got on the administrative side?

Yeah, I mean, definitely.

You know, it's funny, the administrative side and the sales side do tend to kind of work hand
in hand sometimes.

One of the things that wasn't really working for me was my follow up for thank yous and 
referrals and, you know, thanks for doing business.

And I always had great intentions.

You know, I'd write a list of, you know, this week or the last two weeks of the deals that 
closed or the referrals that were given or the people that called and said, hey, I dropped 
your name here.

The intentions were always better than the actual follow up and, or, you know, thank you 
cards.

And so I definitely, you know, because I've always been very structured in my business in 
terms of systems and processes for making a deal work or when you get an email in how I 
send that out, from how I complete files to how I deal with documentation, I just decided to 
think about it from a logical standpoint in that sense and apply the same principles.

So I searched around for different apps on ways to make it better.

Came across a couple of really cool ones and I've been able to streamline that process for, 



for thank yous and referrals and making sure I get them out right away.

What apps do you use then?

Because if I leave it at that, people are going to like message me and say, Scott, why would 
you ask that question and then not, not ask the follow up question?

So because I'm similar to you in that if I don't, I have all.

Sometimes you can have the best intentions, but with either a team approach to do it or 
technology or team to support that, it can things fall down.

So what do you use?

Yeah, so the two I use, the two big ones I use are redstamp.com or red.

It's actually an app on your phone as well.

It's an app where you can send, I don't want to say generic, but you can send authentic 
thank you cards via email or via text that actually show up like a thank you card.

What I do when I get a, you know, when I get a referral or somebody says, you know, hey, I 
got your number from Cindy and all what I'll do is I'll send Cindy a thank you card on 
Redstamp and it's free.

You can download the app, you can customize each message so you can pick.

There's over a thousand different pre designed cards for thank yous, to happy birthdays, to 
congratulations, to all these different ones.

You can pick your card, you can customize your message and then you send it out as a text 
and they get it as a thank you card so they can open their text message, see that they got a 
thank you card, look at it and it's customized, saying, hey, you sent me a referral of your 
friend Bob.

Just wanted to say thank you very much.

And I actually lead that into one of the other apps that I got, which is Gusto, which I think 
you've actually mentioned on your show as well.

Yeah, I have.

Yeah.



So what I'll do is I'll put in that message on Redstamp, I'll say, hey, just a little thank you.

You're going to get another text right now just with a little gift from me.

You know, go out and enjoy a drink and then I'll send them a Gusto gift card where they can 
go out and then have a drink.

And I have had tremendous response from that.

You know, as we get a little bit more tech savvy and electronic people love getting that.

They get the, you know, the Gusto gift card on their phone that they get to keep and use 
without having to carry around a gift card.

But the thank you card always right in front of that link so they can always reference it too.

So I've had a lot of great response.

That's awesome.

And it's nice that like, it's like a one, two punch because the Gusto app is great, but it's not 
like.

And you can write a note, but it doesn't.

It's not like I just open up the red stamp website and it's not as visual in terms of like, just as
a thank you.

So you kind of reference the two together, use the red stamp and then the Gusto layered on 
top of it.

Yeah, that's just it.

And like I said, you know, the red stamp comes as an actual thank you card as a text 
message, which is, I find it very cool.

Not just, you know, not just like you said, you know, with Gusto, I think you get maybe 40 or 
50 characters to write in there.

So it's nice to get.

But the thank you card, you can customize it a little bit more and send a different, you know,



different design every Time.

Right.

You know, that's awesome.

Okay, so now I'm going to switch gears to.

Although that's an administrative process, it's kind of sounds a little bit like sales and 
marketing, but that's okay.

So I want to ask.

Yeah, they kind of overlap.

Yeah, they do overlap for sure.

And I get that like a good sale, a good administrative process will actually support the sales 
process and, and get you more business.

But can you share something on a sales and marketing side of your business that maybe 
wasn't working the ways you would like and then a change that you made, the outcome you 
got?

I've always been tweaking with, you know, thank yous.

I have a few different processes.

I know some people tend to do one thing that works and sticks with it.

I tend to always constantly try different things.

So one of the other things I was doing when my process wasn't working for thank yous, I 
started sending out handwritten thank you cards, which is something we used to do a long, 
long time ago.

And we got away from.

We started using send out cards, we started using templated stationery that we would get 
printed out at Staples.

I started going back to, went to the store, bought actual thank you cards, started writing out 
thank you cards and then sticking a gift card in them.



I would do that with a certain different demographic.

I'd do it with a little bit older of a demographic and then I'd do follow ups.

I make sure that they got the gift card first all and just once again thank them with either an 
email or a phone call.

And I found that started turning into a few more referrals and leads from the older 
demographic as well.

So I have different processes and systems that I do for different demographics.

And that was one that I found worked best on the sales side.

I guess very similar to my systems and processes, but one I found that worked best for 
different demographics.

Yeah, you know what?

I think it's just recognizing that it's good to have a system in a process, but you have to also 
tailor it to an audience.

And one message is not appropriate for like there's no one.

There's no magic bullet that you're going to be like, this is perfect every situation and you 
know, recognizing that and then and making some of the little internal adjustments is smart.

And I agree with you.

There's something about a handwritten note too that's.

There's also something powerful about it.

It's slower.

It's something I've been working on the last little while.

It's not something I've done consistently, but it's important.

Yeah, it doesn't work.

It doesn't work for everyone.



But you know, if you pick the, you pick the, the right demographic or the right person to try 
it on, I find that the response you get from that handwritten thank you card seems to be 
better than, you know, a more powerful response than any other response I get from 
anything else.

Right.

That's awesome.

So I'm going to ask about cross selling.

One of the things that I talking a lot of mortgage brokers is that there seems to be kind of 
two camps.

One that says you need to cross sell, you know, other insurance products and stuff.

Another camp that says no, just do mortgage brokering.

Just wanted to know which camp you fell in.

And if you do cross sell, what area are you focusing on?

I'm actually one of those brokers that's probably on the minority.

I'm in flux right now.

I have been in the camp for the longest time that I don't cross sell.

I have some very good, very strong relationships with some insurance guys, insurance and 
investment guys that send me business and as such I refer note every insurance on all my 
files, pretty much with exception to a few back to these guys, send them the business and 
whether or not they can do it.

But what I've started to find in the past four or six months of trying is that there can be a 
need for both.

So now what I'm starting to focus on a little bit more is the MPP and the life insurance 
through the broker channel.

There's a competitive edge for the broker to, you know, for me to be able to sign them up 
right at the time of client signing.



I've found that it hasn't really interfered very much with the relationship that I have with 
my insurance guys.

I'll still pass them over.

There's the need for so much varied or different insurance these days that they can still sell 
to the client's critical illness or you know, potentially find an investment option or a, or a 
whole life.

And, and if that's the case and they deem the MPP later down the road isn't valuable, then 
they can, you know, the clients can cancel that MPP or the life insurance that they get, you 
know, with no charges.

So I've now really started focusing a little bit more on signing clients up or talking to them 
about the benefits of getting life insurance on the spot through mpp.

Right.

Yeah, that's really good.

So, and again, it's about just being aware that you've got to Pay attention to your process 
and your business and make adjustments.

You know, like you said you were trying this pros.

What I found for me in the past anyway is that when I've had, when I've successfully said to 
someone, hey, you need the MPP and then I say, oh, but you should chat with someone else 
and get like a second opinion.

Their chances of meeting that person are significantly higher if they've taken the MPP than 
if they haven't.

So it's almost like in order to, I found for me, in order to get a successful referral, I almost 
need to pre sell them on the MPP and say, look, this is a great, you know, it can be great, but 
there can be some other stuff that's better.

Why don't you talk to someone and then you can replace this and then people tend to be 
more open to wanting to have that meeting.

But yeah, absolutely.

And I mean MPP offers such, you know, some of those good benefits like a 60 day return as 
well, which is a lot of people will say, yeah, yeah, yeah, that sounds great.



And then not look at insurance for four or six months.

So what I tell them is, listen, I know I've been doing this for 12 years, you're going to say 
this, so why not sign up for mpp?

You're covered until you're ready to make that phone call and look at your other insurance 
options.

Then when you want to cancel this, yeah, you don't get your premiums back, but at least you
recovered for the six months until you have something that works for you or maybe is a 
little bit more comprehensive that fits your needs.

Otherwise this is going to be, you know, clients respect and they find that that's something 
that works for them.

Yeah, that's really good.

I'm going to move to the rapid fire question.

So these are the.

You can answer the shorter answers if you like.

What's the number one thing holding back most mortgage brokers from being successful 
themselves?

For sure.

And what one thing or habit you think has made you successful?

I treat my career like it's a regular job, meaning I don't take days off.

I really hold myself accountable to getting work done and coming into the job every day to 
something.

Do you have an Internet resource or software program you use to make your business more
successful?

You mentioned Red Stamp and Gusto's or something.

Anything else?



Yeah, I do.

I use Dropbox.

I use Dropbox for a lot of different docs.

You know, I go back and forth between working from the office and working from home.

And that helps.

I'm also on auto, which I'm sure most brokers are probably familiar with for, you know, 
document storage and deal tracking, which I find helpful.

Right, Yep, I've heard good things.

And if you could recommend one book for listeners, what would it be?

The Ultimate Sales Machine by Chet Holmes.

Love that book.

It's so good.

He died.

Hey, did you hear that?

I did hear that.

I was actually just introduced to this book to Mastermind Session with Dustin Woodhouse 
and a few other good brokers a month and a half ago.

And I read it right away and loved it.

Yeah, it's all about educational based marketing and it's so good, if any reason hasn't read it,
go get a copy.

It's wicked.

And then.

So where do you think your industry's headed?



Where's the opportunity, man?

I think that it's hard to say specifically where it's headed, but there's so much opportunity 
ever.

I mean we've all seen the numbers on, you know, how much broke share the business 
brokers are actually getting.

There's really opportunity everywhere.

You just gotta, you just gotta look for it.

You just gotta make some calls and pick up the phone and start getting out there.

Here's the last question, one of my favorites.

It's a DeLorean question.

Remember moving back to the future?

Yeah.

And so there's the car.

You get in it, you can travel in time.

So if we could put you in the DeLorean, send you back 12 years and you could sit down and 
have this conversation with yourself to say, hey, Chad, you know, do these three things, your
business will be better for it.

What three things would you tell yourself?

I actually think, just so you know, before I answer that, I think today's the, today's the back 
to the future day.

It is.

I didn't was going to mention it because this, this episode is not going to go live, but it is.

October 21, 2015 is the 30 year advance.

You're right.



So anybody listening?

This is when the interview actually happened.

Watch the movie.

They jumped it today.

Yeah, that's right.

Yeah.

What the three things I tell myself take chances.

Number one, you know, there's too many times early in my career that I was afraid to 
approach or ask for business or ask for a referral.

So definitely take chances.

Number two, be confident.

You know, I've always known the information or knew what to say.

But as a young guy, I think especially in this business back then anyway, it was a bit of an 
old boys club, so.

So you know, be confident with what you're saying and really, you know, show people that 
you know what you're talking about.

And the third thing I'd say is go variable.

You know, I think what we've seen for the past seven years, a lot of people talking about 
fixed.

I'm sure, you know, I just tell and go variable as much as you can.

I know, it's.

That's.

Yeah, no kidding.

And then, you know, 10 years ago, buy as much real estate as you can and hold on for dear 



life if you.

Totally.

Yeah.

And Apple stock, like, man, so I really appreciate your time today, man.

Where can people find you online?

They can find me online.

Chadoanhart.

Ca.

That's my website.

And are you guys hiring?

We're always hiring.

Yeah, I, we're.

Like I said, we're a boutique brokerage.

We're a family fit.

My cousin's one of my brokers, one of my parents, old neighbors.

We're a family fit.

We turn people down if they're, if they're not a fit for the business.

We're looking for full time.

We're looking for good brokers and we're a great group of people.

So, yeah, we're hiring.

Okay, awesome.

So anybody listening to this thing, go to ilovemortgagebrokering.com they can get links to 



Chad, to his site, everything that we talked about, the programs.

Chad, man, I really appreciate it and I hope you continue to crush it.

Thanks, Scott.

I really appreciate the opportunity.

This was fun.