Hey broker nation. Scott Beckford here. Today on I Love Mortgage Brokering Live I had Jim 
Terlukas.

Jim is one of the top producing mortgage professionals in Canada, does about 750 to 800 
loans a year and his process, in this episode he talks about his process and how he takes 
about 10 minutes on average per file and how the whole thing it's absolutely mind blowing 
and there's a lot of great insights in it.

Also Jim shares the do's and don'ts of how to build a successful scaling mortgage practice. I 
think you're really going to enjoy this show. This show is sponsored by Pioneer West 
Acceptance Corp. Pioneer west is a private lender located in British Columbia and Alberta.

And so if you are doing anything with private mortgages please reach out to Styles Stewart. 
Stiles is fantastic and the guys from Pioneer west have supported Island Mortgage 
Brokering for a long time and so please support them and check out this show with Jim. I 
think you're really going to love it.

Hey guys. Welcome to I Love Mortgage Brokering Live. And today on the show I have Jim 
Tailucas. Jim is probably the number one mortgage broker in Canada. I'm not sure if 
anybody else is doing more units, certainly not with a small of a team that he has.

And so I'm going to talk to Jim today about the do's and don'ts of building a successful 
mortgage practice.

And so if you have questions for Jim while we're having this, please put them in the chat box
and at the end Justin was going to read them out to us and we'll, we'll take some of those 
questions. And so before we get started though, I just want to give a shout out to our 
sponsor.

So Pioneer west, they've been with us for a long time and so they're a private lender based 
out of B.C. In Alberta and they basically if you're looking for a private deal, talk to Styles 
Stewart. Those guys are awesome.

And we've had a lot of the people from the idle mortgage broker community have used them
and had lots of good things to say. So please check them out. We'd really appreciate it and 
I'm excited to have Jim yet to have on the show. Welcome Jim to the show.

Thanks for having me. I'm excited to be here. I love your show. I watch every episode I 



possibly can.

Well I don't know how you have time when you're doing 800 deals a year but I do 
appreciate that. So what I would like to do, cause I've seen you have been Much more active 
in our community in the last while. And you have some brilliant pieces of advice for people.

And so I want to get your backstory kind of who you are, how did you get into this industry?
And then we're going to talk about some tips for people so they can build a better business.

Sure. I'm 14 years in the business. I got into the business 2004 with the goal of helping 
financial planners manage their clients debts and their mortgages. Back then in 2004, very 
few people were actually doing that. So I started this company just for that. Just for that 
reason.

I come from the financial planning and mutual fund business, so I had some connections in 
that world which has helped me, quite frankly. When I first started out, I went from 0 to 100
million within a couple of months because of that connection. So it worked really well.

And then I quickly parlayed that success with Garner and other corporate contracts. Like we
work with the biggest relocation company in Canada. So they move corporate executives, 
they use CIBC for half the business. They use me for the other half.

And fast forward, you're the better half, right? Is that what you say?

Say again?

You guys are the better half.

We are the better half. We close more deals, that's for sure. But again, continue to parlay 
each of these.

You're the better half, right? Is that what you say?

Say again?

You guys are the better half. Hey, did you hear that, Justin? Hold on. I'm getting like delay 
feedback. What? Do you know what that is, Justin?

Yeah, I was trying to test the actual feed, but my. Instead of it going to mute, it went to.

Did you hear that, Jim?

Yeah, I'm good now.



Okay. So. Yeah, can you. Yeah. All right. So sorry, that's a problem with the thing about live is
it's exciting, but it's also like, what the heck just happened? Okay, so we'll go back to.

So you, you also, you've worked initially, you had contacts in the financial planning industry 
and also now some relocation stuff. So from our conversations, the big thing I've noticed 
different about how you build your business. Most people go out and they try to build one 
relationship at a time.

You build a relationship with a key person who then can bring in significant amounts of 
business. Is that correct?

That's right. So we, you know, unlike going B2B. B2C, we go to B2, you know, B2B. So we 
focus our energies on garnering corporate contracts.

Whether being teachers or nurses in Ontario or alumni or whatever it may be, we'll go out 
and we'll get the contract and that'll lead to us get numerous, numerous deals with little 
effort on a going forward basis. So that's how we plan it. We don't deal with the consumer 
directly, if you will.

Less than 5% of my business comes from people who we don't know. Most of them come 
from one of these sources or our past clients.

Okay, so you started out in the financial planning industry and you figured out, okay, hey, I 
can, I can work with this relationship. And it went fast for you. So then how did you keep 
the. Because if you didn't, did you have a background in mortgages?

So how do you keep the wheels from falling off when you go from like 0 to 100 million that 
quickly? Because I could see it be like, I'd be. Feel like a rickety cart that would just 
completely blow apart after like four months.

Yeah, well, you learn quick, right? I used to work at First Line Mortgages in the finance 
department. So you learn quick, right? I mean, you learn as you go along. The wheels fell off 
a few times, but hey, that's how you grow a business, right?

Okay, and so then if you. So then today, then like, how many, Just out of curiosity, like, do 
you have three or four or five of these sort of key relationships or what. What's your. What's
that look like?

There's eight. There's 12. Eight of which are giving significant business. Okay, so it's small 
enough to manage. I had a guy I hired whose sole job was to go and land these contracts. 
He's done his job and it worked well. And I'll probably stay at this level. I don't want to get.



Sounds odd, but I don't want to get too big because 800 units a.

Year is like definitely like, that's just small.

Well, it works, right? I mean, the challenges sometimes, you know, you can't turn down 
some of these leads. I mean, some of these are pretty small mortgages, right? You get an 
$80,000 mortgage, you can't say no, right?

You got to fulfill the obligations of your contract, but you gotta, you gotta be able to manage 
it correctly. Right?

Okay, so walk me through your process, because again, this number of units, you still have 
to. Even if. So what. What does it look like when these leads come in? How, like, who 
contacts them? How do you like. Yeah, I just wanna know what that would look like.

Let's say I'm coming to you and I got my $80,000 mortgage and I came from a relocation 
company. How does that look?

Well, typically, what will Happen is you'll either email me or I'll get an email from the 
relocation consultant or your call. So I'll feed the call or I'll call you back. We'll spend seven 
to 10 minutes on the phone to allow me to quickly decipher whether or not we're a good fit.

If we're not a good fit, then we're not a good fit. If we are a good fit, then we continue the 
conversation.

I want to ask something about that. So on that first call, are you gauging whether or not that 
customer. Customer is like somebody that you're going to work with? Because I found so 
many people, they think it's just about selling the customer to work with them.

But are you also screening to know if this is something worth that you can actually do 
something with?

Yeah, actually, that's exactly it. We kind of interview them. It sounds odd, right? But what 
happens is we got to be very careful with our time. We can't spend time with people who 
aren't a good fit or aren't going to close or tire kickers or whatever you want to call it.

So we've got to field a bunch of questions up front, understand what your situation is and 
make sure that we can provide the best solution. I'll give you an example. I had a client call 
me yesterday who's buying a home and selling a home.

You know, my first question was, great, do you have a mortgage on your home and who is it 
with? Tell me what you have. Are you into the term what rate do you have?



I want to quickly understand that I'm not going to do all this work for this client only to find 
out that they're better off staying with rural bank than and not paying a $30,000 penalty. 
Right. So I want to put that up front, understand if it makes sense or not.

If it doesn't make sense, they're not going to go ahead anyway. So why am I going to waste 
an hour and a half of my time, this process, just to lose them in the 11th hour?

Right.

I want to get that up front. I want to make sure it works for them. If it doesn't work for them,
we cut it loose and we move on to the next. Right.

And you've only invested seven minutes instead of like, you know, hours and applications 
and documents and your team's time and everything else.

That's right. I try to get. Keep it under 10 minutes and for the most part it works.

Okay.

You got to control the conversation. Right. So I don't care you got triple pane windows. 
That's great, but doesn't help the situation. Right.

So. Okay, I'm gonna ask you about that in a second. But so the reason I wanted to bring this 
up is because I know that we have alignment in how that works. But there's so many people 
that they think that the job is just to convince the client to work with them. It's like, oh, 
please work with me.

And it's like, no, no. Is this somebody you can effectively serve? And like Jim said, if not just. 
And move on. And then it gives you more energy to serve the people you can. So what was 
my question? I had a question that I wanted to ask to follow up on this.

Okay, so if it's not a fit, you just let them go and then, so what's the next part of the process 
that you go through?

So if they do fit and it makes sense, then the next step is we send them an email with an 
application and the list of all the documents that we need to get back and we leave it there. 
If we don't get them back, we move on.

We're not going to chase that client because most people know if they want to work with 
you or not. So they get the email, they know what we need and we want it back. And here's 
the key.

And you know, how do you differentiate a tire kicker from a potential client is not only do 



we ask for them to do all the work and give us all the docs up front, we also ask for their 
credit card. So if we need to do an appraisal, you're paying for it. I may or may not 
reimburse you.

We'll discuss that. But I need to get that up front as well. If you're not giving me your credit 
card and the documents, then you're really not that interested in proceeding. And it's a hard
thing to ask for, it's a hard thing to give.

Granted, most of our clients come to us from a trusted source, their financial planner, their 
association, or their past clients. And they have no problem doing that. If you're not going to
give it up, we're not going to move on.

Right. And so what is your from application? So what's the ratio of fundings that you get? 
I'm curious.

So from application, we're about 92%, right. So from the moment we get this stuff back, we 
close all the deals. If we don't close them, it's because something's fallen through the deal. 
The appraisal, something's falling Apart.

But I think we've done a bang up job from, you know, let's move work together to actually 
close them. We don't send deals to multiple lenders and hope it sticks. It's just not good use 
time for us or our partners. So it's a fairly good number.

Yeah, I know. And that's why you can do so many units is because you're only, you spend 
seven minutes with a tire kicker and then you only work on stuff that's actually going to 
fund. And so you're, you're. That's amazing.

And so then what happens after, okay, let's say I got my $80,000 mortgage, I fill out the app, 
I give you my credit card. And incidentally so some of the other business I'm involved in, the
number one thing that people struggle with is giving you as soon as they, the credit card is.

There's something psychological about it. Like that is a huge, like you said, that's a huge step
for them if they give you their credit card info. Like the chances of that deal going through 
are really high because they don't give out their credit cards. So what's the next step?

So what do you do when. After you get my application.

Great. So it comes back and it has to come back in the format we want. I've got some clients 
who send me page by page as a jpeg and doesn't work. So we send it right back.

Say guys, send it back as a PDF, comes back when it comes back correctly, I then take that 
email and forward it to either John or Jerry. I got two guys that work for me, forward it on to
them and then they pick it up from there.



I may walk over and say, guys, here's what we're doing, here's the deal. They work the deal. 
They contact the client and take it from there. I go back to the client at the end through our 
CRM program, basically. So basically I talk to the client for seven minutes up front and that's
basically it.

And you don't talk to them anymore.

I should. Right. That. You know, I've got a lot to learn as well. I mean, I mean I should go 
back to them, right? But I mean our CRM does a pretty good job in touching them eight to 
ten times a year. Now having said that, I do go back to every client when I find an 
opportunity for every client.

Right.

So I got a database of 9,000 past clients and I do campaigns for each of them. That, that 
makes sense. So right now I'm doing campaign for people who have taken a 10 year 
mortgage, I got about 200 people took a 10 year mortgage four to five years ago at 399.

Well, guess what, those are great campaigns. Run the math. Call these guys up, say, look, you
know, to break your mortgage, you're paying about 75 bids. You're going to make about, 
save about 400 basis points for the next five years. You're headed by 300 basis points.

Right.

Net of the penalty. So I do go back to the clients when I work my database, which is like I 
said probably today, about 60% of my business comes from this second effort.

Okay, and question on that. So of the number of people that come to you from that initial 
call, what percentage don't actually follow through? So you said some of them, like you have
a really high, once they give you the app, it's really high.

But like what would be the number of people that they have, they have that seven minute 
call. What percent don't follow through?

It's a big number, right? So here's why I got seven minutes. I get about 30 calls a day, about 
200 emails a day. So it's a lot of, lot of stuff flowing through, a lot of fluff, a lot of junk and 
you got to really be able to filter it quickly.

Now, I mean, 30 calls a day, someone's calling for a reason. A lot of people are just tire 
kicking. But I think there's opportunity for us to do a better job in converting. I probably 
convert if we close 750 deals a day. That tells me of the 30 calls or so and emails is three a 
day.



So we're doing about finding three deals a day based on that. So 10% of the calls would be a 
good number.

Right? But because you're not chasing down the people that don't want to work with you, 
you have so much more time for the people that do. So I love that.

Well, that's just it, right? You know, if I had more time, I would chase them down, right? So if
you're new in the business and you got time on your hands, of course you're going to chase 
them down.

If you, you know, I've built this machine that now the calls are coming and the emails are 
coming and I've got to do a good job in filtering through that very quickly right now I lose a 
lot of deals, I'll be honest. Right. I mean we never see clients face to face and I lose deals 
because of that.

People want to meet sometimes, right? So you know, I'm not Going to spend two hours or 
whatever it takes to meet someone face to face and that's going to cost me eight phone calls 
where I can probably pick up another one or two deals.

Right. It's all about the trade offs. Okay, so then tell me about your CRM. So how are you 
keeping track of 9,000 clients?

So being part of Verico, there's a plug right there. Fantastic network. They've got a great 
CRM tool that I use and that pulls in a lot, a lot, a lot of calls and emails. So that's what I 
typically for the most part use.

But I've got a dust and spreadsheet that I've created on my own where, you know, this is 
where I manage my campaign. So I got a huge spreadsheet with columns across the top and 
I'm able to sort data and do queries and whatnot and manage my database that way.

Right. So that's why you can find the 200 people with the 10 year mortgages like that and 
you probably have all their phone numbers. You can just start like dialing for dollars 
basically.

Yeah, yeah, yeah, you know, absolutely. And you know exactly what we do, right? So we, that
spreadsheet's got everything on there when we did the mortgage, what term they have.

You know, I've gone so far as saying the opportunity cost or opportunity value for them 
would be, is, hey, you're a prime minus 0.1. Right. I got a client at prime minus 0.12 and a 
half years ago. I can get them to prime minus one, save them 90 basis points.

So my spreadsheet is now actually does that calculation for me so I can quickly find out 



what the incremental value for that client is when I'm making that call. Say, hey, you know, 
would you spend 1500 bucks to save eight grand over the next two years?

Yeah. Right. But get me all your paperwork and don't waste my time.

Exactly.

Okay. And so you said one other thing I'm going to ask you about. You said you did eight 
touches a year. So what are you doing? You know, I believe in a client for life strategy. So 
what are you doing to keep these people from forgetting about you?

You know what, it's those two things. It's the eight touches that go through the CRM and it's 
my proactive call to the opportunities in the database. It's very manual, it's not very 
sophisticated. Right.

It clearly doesn't matter. Right. Like the reality is it doesn't matter. Okay. So if people have 
questions for Jim, please put them in the chat box. We're going to come to them in a few 
minutes. But I want to now chat with you about. You said you have some do's and don'ts.

So what's your sort of Jim's philosophy that has helped you build your business practice this
big?

Okay, so one of my philosophies, it may sound a bit crude, but my biggest philosophy that I 
follow is I run my business to kick butt rather than kiss butt. Let me explain what that 
means.

That's not how you said it before we recorded. I'm just kidding.

Okay, fair enough.

It's like, you know, Don Cherry has a seven second delay. We won't do that with you though.

Fair enough. So what I'm.

What I mean by that is, and I'll give you by example of what I one of the I don't do, I don't 
deal with realtors because my experience and I, you know, it's only my experience is I find 
that when you deal with a realtor, you're getting into a relationship where you, you're 
coming out from the weaker part of relationship where they're kind of doing you a favor.

You approach them with your hat in your hand and you kind of hope that they work with 
you and etc. And that's my experience. And I would rather deal with the people I deal with 
where I create value for them, for my contracts and my planners.



There's tremendous value for them and we're an equal partner rather than being someone 
that's, you know, hoping for something to fall on my plate. So I kind of run my business 
under that philosophy where I want to get up in the morning and do a fantastic job and kick 
butt. Right?

Rather than the latter. So that's the big one for me. And then a whole bunch of things fall off 
of that based on that philosophy, right? So don't deal with realtors. Don't see clients face to 
face. We all have a know your client. I've got a know your lender philosophy, right? It's very 
important.

Like I deal with probably four major lenders and a whole bunch of smaller ones. It's so 
crucial to know your lender not only to save your time and the lender's time, but from a 
business perspective.

If you know your lender and you know the products, you're now able to work around and 
work with those products to create incremental value down the road for your client. There's
a whole bunch of things you can do around that, right?

I mean, when it comes to holding rates for your clients, you know, the timing of when you 
should do that based on who the lender is, what their policy. Right. There's a whole bunch 
that goes around knowing your lender, which we spent a lot of time learning and it's 
worked quite well.

I'll be giving you an example. I rarely will send a lend a deal to a lender where it's 
impossible to help your client again. Right. Some lenders won't send a payout statement if 
they don't talk to the client. Well, you know, that's not good.

From our perspective, we want the opportunity to create more value for clients, you know, 
two years from now, five years from now, whatever it may be. So it's very important to 
work with lenders that help you facilitate that.

Right. Okay, that's really good. And so the kick butt, don't kiss butt was the one you don't 
meet with clients. So what do you say to someone who's like, no, no, I want to meet you, Jim.

Like, I got this $80,000 mortgage and I really need to meet you because you need to hear 
about my, like the, you know, my whole situation. What do you say to them?

Well, you know, simply it's, look, we can meet and we will meet. However, let's talk up front 
now so we can, to make sure we're a match so I don't waste your time. So it makes sense.

We'll have this conversation and we lead to the point where, hey, send me your doc, send 
me all this stuff looks like it'll work, we'll meet later on, right? Well, once we get the 
approval back, we send the approval, they forget they want to meet and they never want to 



meet.

So the clients who want to meet, we try to move them off that. The ones that are adamant 
about it, we will just tell them to go down the street and tour competition, right. It's not a 
good fit. It just doesn't make sense.

But for the most part, you know, we probably get about 15, 20 requests of the 800 deals 
who want to meet and we'll probably lose two of them. I had a client we lost last week who 
didn't want to send over an 80, 80 page package for their new construction. Right.

She wanted to come here and photocopy it. And I'm thinking, really?

So what did you say to them?

No, I said, no, it's just easy to scan it and send it to us and, and she goes, well, just deal with 
my, my branch. I said, fantastic, right? You know, good luck to you and all the best.

So.

Every decision I make, it's all around that deal. It's all around the right cost benefit for that 
situation. Right? It's not that. It's not that I don't want to meet people, I like to meet people. 
It's just that it's not a good use of time.

Every person I meet is going to cost me four phone calls or five phone calls, which could be 
another million dollar mortgage. Right. And that's one of my other don'ts, right. You know, 
never, you know, I get requests from lenders to go for lunch or dinner or this and that and 
we don't go.

I don't spend time with any BRM or bdm. If I need you, I'm going to call you and get what I 
need. But to go and sit down for two hours for lunch or to go to, you know, I don't go to any 
of these events. I can't and whatnot for me, I don't get value out of them. Right. That's why I 
don't go.

I don't need to network. You know, if I need to learn something, I'll just call one of the 
successful guys that own the business and I'll learn quickly. I just don't think it's a good use 
of my time.

So events, lender golf tournaments and trips, it just doesn't, it doesn't flow well with how I 
try to run it. I'm in by nine, I'm out by three and you know, no six hours. I got to cram as 
much as I can.

Okay. That's the question I want to ask. What is your, how many hours you work in a week 
and are you working evenings and weekends? Do you take calls from clients at like, you 



know, 11 o' clock at night and Saturdays? What does that look like?

I used to, right. I, you know, when I, up until about three or four years ago, I'd walk down 
the street or walk into a Loblaws and my thought was, okay, where can I find two deals, 
right as I'm shopping, right. Everything was mortgages, mortgages, mortgages, everything, 
everything was mortgage.

I think every call I've stopped doing that. Right. And I found that it's, you know, I lose some 
deals. Absolutely. But you know what? You need a balanced life and that's more important. 
Like I'm not as young as you are, right.

So I've got to at this point be able to balance my life and live a good life rather than just 
work Work, Work, Right.

So, okay, so then you work what your. What's your office hours?

So I got my kids off at school. I get here at nine. I'll sit down with the guys and we'll chat 
about whatever, you know, whatever flavor of the day is or talk about some deals. So I'll 
finally sit down on my desk around 9, 20 ish.

And at that point I just return phone calls, return emails, and that's my date. So I never have 
meetings. So my calendar, when you said, hey, can you meet this time? I can meet, talk to 
you anytime you like. Because I never have any meetings. My calendar is fully empty. So my 
whole day is around.

Answer emails, answer phone calls, that's it. And return phone calls. And that's my day from
9 till about 3. And then I pick up my kids from school, get home and maybe watch Y and R 
with my wife for an hour. I don't know. And Y and R is that young.

And young and restless. Wow, that's still on.

I didn't even know it's still on. Yeah, it's still on. Victor Newman's still on this show, believe 
it or not. But that's my day, right. I'm done at three. I don't chase it anymore like I used to. 
Right. I mean, I had to chase it to get to where I am. I just don't chase it anymore.

Right. And so do you. Weekends, do you work?

No. No.

And then what about holidays? Like what kind of holidays can you. Do you take in a yearly 
basis?

About eight weeks a year. Eight or nine weeks a year. Hence why I don't go on these lender 



trips because I'm traveling enough. But I'm working on my vacations. Right. So we're sitting 
at the beach, my phone call, my phone rings or email comes in, you know, I'll answer it.

You know, I'm working on vacation. That's the only downside. Yeah, I probably shouldn't. I 
could probably get one of the guys fill in, but they're busy enough. Right. So although I do 
take lots of vacations, I'm actually working.

Right, right. Okay, that's fair. I just wanted to know how that process worked. And so, Justin, 
do we have any questions?

Yeah, we got one from Bernard Immel. He wants to know why did you leave the mutual fund
business?

Okay, so I was the cfo. I had an excellent job, making pretty good money. And I was 37, I 
guess at the time. I just, you know, I didn't want to be a guy who got walked out because let 
me tell you, at some point everybody gets walked out, right?

You could be the CEO of the company at some point, you've done your time and you get 
walked out. I don't want to be 52 years old and get walked out of a job and then scramble 
and try and figure things out.

I wanted to start my own business and I figured even if I made less money doing this, I'd be 
happy. Right. I have more control of my own destiny, control of my own time. And that's 
why I did it and worked out perfectly well and it worked out great. Better than I ever 
expected.

Right. That's really good. And so just let me know how many questions we have in there. 
Justin, that was the only one. That was the only one so far. Wow. There's nobody. I cannot 
believe believe you people are crazy. We have Jim Tolucas on and you're like, what are you 
doing?

Maybe talking to clients, but you should be asking questions. And so one of the questions 
that I want to ask you about in terms of your process, it's man, I don't know, I really 
appreciate so far with the stuff that you shared with us and just how you're.

What it seems to me that like is that, and I say this to clients all the time or to other to 
mortgage brokers is like you have to be the professional. You're the doctor, you're not the 
waitress taking the orders. You've got to.

And so it seems to me that you very much run a business that's you're the professional, 
you're the advisor, but you're not going to have the client run you around and basically, you 
know, then leave at the last minute.



Absolutely. And I put that up front, right? I mean I give the example. When you go to your 
doctor, your doctor kind of controls that meeting. You listen to what your doctor says. I'm 
your mortgage doctor, you know, your finance doctor. You got to listen to what I got to say.

And for the most part it works. Oftentimes people go on a tangent and talk about things that 
don't matter and give them the courtesy and you listen to it. But at some point you got to cut
it off, right. More so once someone's a real client, when someone's, like I said, a seven 
minute prospect.

No, at that point, you know, I get on a phone call and say, look, I'm going to ask you a series 
of questions. Just answer my questions directly and I'll quickly tell you how I can provide 
you tremendous value. So you got to kind of put it out there up front.

Some people get offended and say, you know, you know, who you think you are, whatever, 
it's fine. Right? But I really gotta. I really gotta control the process. Otherwise you get. Get 
lost.

And were you always this way, or is this something you've developed because. Because 
obviously It's a necessity. 30 Leads a day. You gotta be more efficient. But were you always 
this way or like, what did that look like?

Yeah. Yes, I. I am your typical. A type. Type of, you know, a type kind of guy that in all 
aspects of my life, I am kind of that way. It's all about efficiencies. It drives my wife nuts.

You know, we go through a drive through at Tim Hortons, you know, I got to know up front 
before we get to that window. I got to know kids, what are you having? You know, rhyme it 
off. So when we get there, you know, we can actually have it set to go. Have the money ready
and, you know, be efficient.

Yeah, it's my nature, right. To be as efficient as possible. It's worked well.

Right. So cool. That's awesome. Have you ever done a disc profile before?

You mean the Myers Briggs?

Yeah. Or have you done one of those? What's your personality type?

Entj.

Entj.

So I guess. What is that? Extrovert intuitive thinking. And what are the last one?



Judging.

Judging, yeah. Thank you.

No, I never even noticed, actually. That's awesome. Okay, well, hey, if we got no more 
questions, Justin, then.

Oh, no, we. The floodgates open up.

Okay, great.

Last one. So friend of the show, Joel Olson. Check out his episode last week. It was amazing. I
heard you have a great process around appraisals. Can you talk about that and what you do 
for that?

Let me think. What's my. Not sure. More than anything anybody else would do, typically we 
order the appraisals to solidify or nas.

And I think maybe he's referring to the fact that you get the credit cards up front. Maybe 
because you talked about that already. So, like. Because not everybody does that sometimes.
They're like, one of the things I found. If the client is expected to pay, they get sent the link. 
It goes to spam.

There's a whole bunch of, like, time wasted in them trying to figure out how to pay for the 
appraisal. Whereas if you have the credit card, your team can be like, done. We can order it.

Yeah, we don't. We don't do the link thing. Right. It goes to spam. People mess it up. We take 
control of that. Right. So Credit card up front. Even with clients that we're going to pay for 
the. The appraisal, we get it up front. It's a hook to the client. Right. It's okay.

If you do closes, you get reimbursed. If it doesn't close, you walk. That's your cost. Right. So 
that, that's really the only process, you know, we do in terms of process, we do order their 
praise up front.

One of the things that we do is if I get a deal on Monday and the client's got to waive 
financing by Friday, for example, that's one of the first things that we do. When we get the 
documents back and we know the deal works, we order the appraisal immediately and we 
put a rush on it.

And, you know, our typical process, you know, client comes in on Monday, we've got file 
complete by Tuesday, ex appraisal. Right. And so it fits well into the process. The appraisal 
can slow us down, you know, get us to Wednesday, whatever the case may be. But. But yeah,
we filled.



We fill it in to our process to get them in, get it done, get it out by Friday. Right. So once 
client comes on Monday, they're done on Friday. You know, the next call would be from 
John or Jerry to say, hey, go to your lawyer's office and sign the paperwork or whatever the 
case may be.

Right. Okay, cool. What's the next question, Justin?

All right, we got Sean, Sean Smith. If you don't work with realtors, where does the bulk of 
your business come from other than your database?

Okay, so 65% of my clients are past clients. 65 To 70% past clients or referral from past 
clients or brother of a client, whatever. The other 25 or 35% come from the corporate 
contracts that I've got lined up.

So I've got a number of institutions that I'm in bed with that send me business on a daily 
basis.

Right?

Eight to ten of them. Eight of them are pretty. Pretty good, yeah. So eight or so. That sent us 
a tremendous amount of business.

Okay, great. Hit us again, Justin.

Right. Ava Newfield asks, do you use a lead generation system or just your database?

So I guess to me that sounds like one of their. The rate sites. I think what you're asking, 
Right. I won't name them on the air here, but there's three or four rate sites that are here in 
Canada, we used to use them. So I'm going back four or five years ago.

We used to be on the RAID site, and back then it worked for Us it worked in that we didn't 
have to buy a race down that much and it worked quite well.

What I found over the last few years is it's gotten so much more competitive to the point 
where the guys that are working on the races typically work for 35 to 40 basis points is 
what they were after the buy down.

And when you do the math on that, you know, we used to do it, we'd get five leads and we 
closed one of those. Right.

Because the nature of those clients is, hey, I'm going to call Jim, I'm going to call Joe, I'm 
going to call five different guys and I'll send myself to five different guys and one of them 



will stick. So you're going to close one in five of them.

When you look at the cost to generate those leads, we weren't making much money. We 
were making a bit of money originally. We were making, you know, 80, 90 basis points. We 
bought it down 5 or 10 basis points. But today to compete in that world, you're buying it 
down 10 or 15 basis points.

You're starting off at best, 50 basis points at best. And then when you factor in your cost, 
remember you're working on five deal to close one. There's a cost factor there, right?

Yeah. And I think 5 to 1 is a high closing ratio for that type of work. I mean it could be even 
lower. Right. And even today. Yeah.

So the answer is no, we don't use, use lead generation anymore. I mean it just doesn't, 
doesn't make economic sense for us.

And I think what you're highlighting though is that how you've evolved your business, I 
mean obviously you got, were able to secure some of these corporate contracts to start, 
which kind of gave you, you know, that, that base to build with. You've tried some things.

But as being successful in this business, what worked 14 years ago is has to change. Like it 
doesn't, you know, you have to adjust to the times. And so I think really that's a key thing 
that. And is there any other areas that you've had to make some adjustments in the last few 
years?

Well, that, well, one of the areas, if I go back 10 years ago, it was extremely easy to be 
successful in this business. Ten years ago when a client called you and said, hey, TD offered 
me 5.5%, we were typically the industry was about 40 to 50 basis points below the bets.

So anybody and your uncle could be successful in this business. Ten years ago today, not so 
much. Right. We all know that we get beat all the time by the banks on the rate.

So the way I've adjusted my business to succeed is you got to kind of get in front and kind of 
create value for the client or there's no reason for them to come with you. Right. So it goes 
back to some of the campaigns I talked about. Right. In my database.

So I'll call clients who there's a spread in the rate where more than makes up the penalty. 
There's, you know, there's value in holding someone's, you know, I went and did, you know, 
a number of rate holds a couple days ago I got clients who were coming due, for example, 
ten months from now.

So I went in and did a four month rate hold for all those clients. Right. You probably think, 
well, 10 months, what's the point? The point is I know rates are probably will continue to go



up. They went up yesterday, today with one of our lenders.

I'm now holding a rate for a bunch of clients at, call it, you know,339. Where today that 
lender's at 369. In two months it may be a 389. Well, I'm going to go back to that client, say 
hey look, I got a rate hold for you that's expiring in a month. I'm at 339. Mark is at 389.

You're going to save 200 basis points over the next five years. It'll cost you 60bps to get out 
early. It's a done deal.

Right. So you always find the opportunity. And so when you're in that initial conversation 
because you're about finding value for your clients, do you hint at that and say, hey, one of 
the things that we're really good at is you're not just our client now.

But if we find opportunities over the next three to five years, we're always going to be in 
touch with you to make sure that we make those adjustments. Is that something you 
typically would mention.

Or we don't, but we will as of now.

Okay, sorry. Yeah, because I think like, seriously, people be like, oh my gosh.

And you, even if you dropped one example, because I'm just thinking if you're on the phone 
with a client and say, you know, for instance, we have a client, there's like you just said to 
me, they'd be like, okay, so you're going to save me money, not like done here, you know, 
take my money kind of thing.

But anyway, so I'm glad, I'm glad I could Help you with some things. Get one of the questions
we got, Justin, because we got to be done in like 10 minutes or max.

Okay, so I'll keep it up to the last two that came in. Sean Smith has had a follow up question 
to the institutions you partner with. What's in it for them? I assume you're not giving them 
kickbacks.

No, money's in it for them. Right. So it's not a kickback. It's a contractual obligation where 
they send us a lead and we pay them a referral fee for every lead that closes. Kickback's a 
hard word, right?

I mean we completely disclose up front to the client as fiscal requires that who we're paying
and what we're paying as a referral.

Right. And kickback assumes. Implies something on the side that someone else doesn't 
know about. And your case is a contract, so it's just a, It's a contractual thing.



Right.

Okay, what's the other question?

All right, we'll leave this one. Probably be the last one. Bernard, Emil, one more time. Would 
you ever have a team on your side to capture your clients mutual funds now?

No. There's limited time in the day for me and to focus on other revenue sources that I don't
think makes sense for me. And we don't do insurance either. Right. So we offer the MPP and 
for clients who don't take it, we don't go and push it. We don't push other insurance 
products, etc.

We focus on what I think we're good at. We don't push other products. Now having said 
that, I wouldn't be in business too long if financial planner sends me a deal and I take, take 
that client and I push off his mutual fund business to another advisor. Right?

Right. Because some of your contracts are with financial advisors. So you have to be mindful
of like, oh, why don't I talk to my guy? That's like, yeah, that's not good.

Right? Well, not only that, some of my other contracts too. Specify, Jim, you're only selling 
mortgages. That's it. Don't even think about selling house insurance or anything else 
because they got that covered. Right. You're just the mortgage guy. Don't even think about 
selling the things.

So I can't even if I wanted to.

Right. Okay. Well, hey, Jim, I really appreciate your time today. Your honesty and openness 
to share with the community and guys, anybody that got a chance to be in on this, call and 
ask questions. I think it was incredibly valuable. I know that I got a lot of good ideas from 
this.

And, dude, maybe I'll see an event someday. I'm working on an event that I actually think 
you would enjoy, and it would be valuable. I'll reach out to you about it because I agree with 
you that a lot of times there's not a lot of value, but I'm cooking up something that I think. 
Think that you.

We'll see, but I think you may. Okay, thank you, Jim, man, I really appreciate it.