I brought in my main automation mans, Tony, who works with Slate Checkout.
Tony, what are we going to learn today?
I'm going to tell you the story of the time that I made a voice AI that lowballed every single
luxury watch dealer in the US for a Rolex Daytona.
That's a $35,000 watch and it actually kind of worked.
Are you the seller with the Rolex Daytona?
Which Rolex Daytona?
Which Rolex Daytona do you have for sale?
Brand new box and papers.
Got it.
I love the Italian.
What's your asking price for the Daytona?
60,000.
Boom.
First actual offer.
And why should people even care about that?
Because I think people are drastically underestimating what voice AIs are capable of.
Basically, it's my belief that any work that you do that's over the phone could and may get
automated in the next one to three years.
Cool.

And you're going to show us all the tools you use, some of the workflows, maybe even some
prompts.
You're not going to hold back on sauce, are you?
No, no, no.
I've got so much sauce for anybody who will listen.
Okay, cool.
All right, let's see what you got.
Okay, so this is my voice AI, which I have dubbed lovingly.
Lowballer9000.
He's.
His name is Alex.
I like to give my AIs names because it helps me remember, like who they are in my head.
And he, his job is basically to do one thing.
He is looking for a Rolex Daytona and he knows that he's talking to luxury watch dealers.
He needs to do a few things.
He has to gather some like, critical details which are like, hey, what, you know, what's the
condition of the watch in?
Do you have all of the original documentation and the packaging for the watch?
These are like kind of important details that you need to have when negotiating a watch
because they can like dramatically impact the quoted cost of the watch.
Now, to be spec, like, to be precise, we're not really calling like Rolex the, the like factory
dealer, we're calling second hand dealers.
So when I say luxury dealers, I don't mean like Rolex Official USA in like Rodeo Drive.
I mean like the, the guy who buys the secondhand Rolexes in like some spot out in Miami or

something.
Like these are the people that I'm targeting and this is the platform that I'm using to do all of
this.
This is vapi.
I think literally VAPI just amounts to voice API and it's basically a very flexible way to build
voice agents.
They don't lock you into anything proprietary.
It's simply just bring your prompt, pick your providers for your different services, and then
literally hit go and run it.
And for the prompt, is this something that you wrote yourself or is this something that you
prompted, like a chatgpt to be like, hey, this is what I'm trying to do.
Like, how do I structure this?
The prompt is something that I wrote myself.
But also so like, okay, VAPI has some documentation which may have changed.
May have changed by now, which is like, here are some general best practices for building a
prompt.
But I think, like, this is a tricky question because a lot of what my prompt is doing is reacting
to sort of my tests that I conduct.
So, like, my general process has been, let's watch people lowball.
Like, watch Sellers irl.
So there's a couple of content creators who I like who do this and then I just try to like put
those.
Simulate those conversations with Vabi, with Alex.
And then what'll happen is like, Alex will respond in a way that I don't like.
For example, like a lot of the times when we would start the call, start the conversation, Alex
would just ram every single question I had, like, down my throat within the first turn.

And so I was like, ah, this is like, you know, so not engaging.
It's so obviously AI.
Like, I need to make sure it doesn't do that.
So a lot of what I would do would be, okay, where in my prompt can I tell it to just, you
know, say one thing at a time?
And I think there's probably something in here.
Yeah, like, keep concise.
Keep responses concise.
One to two sentences max.
So it would just like, if you think about it, it's like if you're on a boat and your boat has like a
bunch of holes and you're slowly sinking, all I'm doing is like going in and patching the holes
as I'm finding it.
That was sort of my approach with the prompt, but it's a mix of both.
To answer your question.
Cool.
I mean, it also makes sense that you're keeping the sentences super short and clear because
you don't want VAPI to mess up.
Yeah, yeah, that's a big deal.
Also, in terms of while we're talking about sauce, I don't know where it is in my, in here.
But just something general that I learned is that most conversations happen at like a sixth
grade English level.
I think this is just true across, I don't know, every single interaction you can possibly.
Or most human interactions Over a phone.
So I remember when I changed the prompt to say, like, only use, like 6th grade English.

I got way longer call durations.
I don't have, like super precise metrics, but I remember.
I remember talking to it and being like, oh, this sounds so much more human.
And from a model perspective, I see you have Gemini 2.0 flash.
Like, how should people think about which model they should use?
The model is really dependent.
So I feel like a lot of what we.
A lot of the model game now is very, like, flavor of the month.
In my video, I actually ended up using deepseek before Deep Seek had its whole big hype
cycle, which was good and bad.
I saved money for the calls that I was able to place, but because we went through that whole
hype cycle, my bot just crashed.
It just wasn't making any calls or, like, people would call in and they would say things to my
bot and then my bot would just not respond.
Hey, I'm calling about a watch.
Do you have a second?
Yeah.
Yes, hello.
Hello, thank you for calling Roman Jewelers.
How may I help you?
Jewels In Time, this is Ev speaking.
Hello, Jewels In Time.
Hello.

Yes, how can I help you?
Prestige Time Stall speaking.
Can I help you?
Hello, good afternoon, Becker Time.
This is Alex speaking.
How can we help you today?
Quick break in the pod to tell you a little bit about Startup Empire.
So Startup Empire is my private membership where it's a bunch of people like me, like you,
who want to build out their startup ideas.
Now they're looking for content to help accelerate that.
They're looking for potential co founders, they're looking for tutorials from people like me
to come in and tell them, how do you do email marketing?
How do you build an audience?
How do you go viral on Twitter?
All these different things.
That's exactly what Startup Empire is.
And it's for people who want to start a startup but are looking for ideas, or it's for people
who have a startup but just they're not seeing the traction that they need.
So you can check out the link to StartupEmpire Co in the description.
And that was because Deepseek's API was just so slammed, it just literally did not respond
to my request.
So pick one that's available.
And what does temperature mean?

I see this one.
Temperature one.
Yeah.
So temperature is like, how creative do you want his responses to be?
So, like, if you want a borderline deterministic system, like a system that you can sort of
predict really easily, you would put the temperature closer to zero.
Okay.
But Then what ends up happening is, like, if someone asks a question that isn't, like, very
common, it won't know how to respond and it'll just pick like a response that isn't
appropriate at all.
Okay, and so this is the system prompt.
This is where you configure which model you use.
Where do you pick, which voice you use?
Because I know you use like some Sopranos, Soprano's voice.
So right here under voice, you have the voice configuration.
And I think in this scenario I'm using Cartesia, although you have all of the super popular
ones here.
But Cartesia and New York man is what they're calling him.
Shots Fire.
Definitely.
Yeah.
Definitely not a reference to any sort of fictional character that's very popular on a very
specific TV show.
But are you the seller with the Rolex Daytona responding?

Which Rolex Daytona?
Which Rolex Daytona do you have for sale?
Brand new box and papers.
Got it.
I love the Italian.
Right?
It should be New Jersey man, because I think the Sopranos are in New Jersey.
Perhaps.
Perhaps these are all alleged allegations.
So what else do people need to know about VAPI in terms of, like, setting it up and.
Yeah, what else is there to know?
Okay, I would say probably the most powerful part of VAPI exists in the tool calls.
So tool calling, I don't know if how many of your audience is, like, familiar, but basically, like
a voice AI becomes really powerful when it can interact with your existing tools.
So, like, for example, I need a way to record all of the calls, so I'm going to share a different
tab with you instead.
So this is my watch list.
Essentially, it's a database that has every single call my AI has placed.
The reason for this is because I don't want to have to sift through over 800 calls and figure
out which calls actually resulted in something actionable.
I want my system to tell me, here are the calls that we actually, like, got an offer on.
So I.
What I did was I created a tool call that basically says, hey, once a conversation is done, take
the entire transcript and tell me whether or not we actually got an offer from them.

So did they even engage with our bot?
And did we lowball them?
And if we did, how much do we lowball them for?
And did they accept our lowball?
And if they didn't accept our low ball, did they at least give us another price?
And was that price the final price?
So, as you can see here in this spreadsheet that I have, these are all of the calls that resulted
in an offer that they gave us, and then whether or not they accepted or whether or not we
got them down to their absolute lowest price.
So this made it super easy to sift through my 800 calls and find the calls that actually
resulted in something that I could use in my content.
Cool.
And to tie a knot in that.
The way I was able to do this is right here in the tool section.
You basically create a tool.
I think what I use was get best offer, which was talk to my airtable spreadsheet, get the best
offer we have, and then use it in the negotiation.
And I see send to Lindy over there.
Where, where do you see that?
Tools.
Under tools.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
What were you doing there?

I think this is a different.
I think this is for a different automation.
But I, I definitely, yeah, I definitely have this LinkedIn with Lindy in some other.
In some other voice.
AI.
Yeah, I'm just wondering, I'm trying to give people a sense of like, okay, how could you kind
of marry like a vapi plus a Lindy?
Hmm.
Okay.
I think what Lindy is really good at is flexibly taking big amounts of text and putting it into a
spreadsheet.
I think what, like, Lindy does really well.
Let me just, like, navigate to Lindy and try to give as concise of a demonstration as I can.
But, like, you know when you have like a spreadsheet and you have like, let's say, five
columns, and let's say you're just like, trying to do your homework on, like, restaurants in a
new city you're going to, and then like halfway through your research, you're like, oh, my
God, I totally forgot.
My, like, wife is vegan.
So I have to, like, specify which of the restaurants are vegan friendly.
So rather.
So if you have a Lindy that does this rather, or let's say it's a make automation or some
classical non Lindy automation, you gotta go, you gotta log back in, you gotta add that
column to your automation, and then you have to write new rules.
So it's like, okay, if there's vegan options on the menu, make sure this is checked.
Lindy does that for you automatically.

Lindy will read the name of your column, like, vegan friendly, and then it'll take the contents
of everything that you're giving it.
Maybe it's like a website scrape or like a menu.
And then it'll be like, oh, yeah, the salad, the, the, the non Caesar salad, the Mediterranean
salad sans feta.
That's vegan friendly.
And it'll automatically check that for you.
You don't have to do anything.
You don't have to log back in.
You just add that column into your spreadsheet, you're done.
So I think I rambled there.
But that's, that's what is possible with Lindy and Vappy situation.
That makes sense.
That makes a lot of sense.
What else do people need to know if they want to bug a bunch of secondhand used watch
dealers or is this it?
What else do they have to know?
Oh, man.
These guys are not always the most friendly dudes.
No, I mean from like a tool perspective.
From a tools perspective.
Oh, man.
Oh, yes.

Twilio.
So I think probably the biggest bottleneck I had, the biggest like hurdle that I had to clear
was getting my calls to actually ring the phones.
So there is something called the shaken and stir, which is like, I think it's an FCC mechanism
enforcement rule that they have that basically says, hey, if you don't register your phone in
our database so that we can do like essentially kyc, we're just like, any calls you make out of
this number, we're just not going to honor.
They're going to go straight to voicemail.
So make sure that you bring your own number, make sure that you've done your KYC and
then start placing calls.
Because I think I had at least 300 calls go out that just straight up went to voicemail.
And could you end like this was a really cool.
Like this, this actually was an aha moment for me around, like what's possible with voice AI,
like right now.
Can you end.
I'd love to just end on this idea around like, okay, like cute, cute demo.
But like, what else could, you know, the average startup founder or person who wants to
like build a business, make money online, like, what's.
What are some interesting things that they can do besides this off the top of your head, Just
use cases.
Rattle off some use cases.
Okay, most obvious one, sales.
Let's say you work in real estate and you have to call people on a prospect list to like see
whether or not, I don't know, like someone in their family has like recently passed or if their
house is like going on the market soon.
So easy.
Just say like, just make a prompt that's like, hey, ask these three questions that we know the

answers to.
I mean, not for the prospect, but if they answer this way we know that the house has a this
percent chance, more likely possibility to appear on the market in the next six months.
I'm sure someone has that Criteria and that data to make that insight.
And then you just take that turn into a prompt, call like 30,000 numbers, and you will have
people on that list who meet your criteria, who you can then pursue.
Okay, that's one.
Here's a framework for thinking about how I would use something like this.
So I think that building vapy AI voice agents is great to get.
Data,.
Where it's basically just a great way to get data.
It's a really great way to get data to give you an unfair advantage.
So what you did with the secondhand watches was like, you can create an arbitrage
business around that, right?
There's literally thousands of dollars of arbitrage that you can be doing.
So the question is, what are other businesses?
And this is something that you can literally prompt, like a chatgpt.
But what are other businesses where getting data allows you to do some arbitrage?
And I just think you can literally go one by one.
And if people are interested, maybe I can do another tutorial on what voice AI agents
business ideas are, but ones that require.
If data is an unfair advantage, if knowledge is an unfair advantage, and knowing something
more than your competitor, then chances are that there's a voice AI opportunity there.
Yeah, that's a good way to look at.

No, I don't think you're wrong in that, because I think when you asked me the first time, like,
what would you teach people if you had the opportunity?
That's kind of what I was trying to tell you.
I was like, I think this voice AI can create a more transparent second market, secondary
market, Whether, like, what sort of businesses you can make off of that, I think are really up
to people who are deeply entrenched in those businesses.
It's like, I'm blanking because I'm being put on the spot.
But, like, you're right.
Anything that's arbitrage, I mean, that's essentially what I'm demonstrating here, right?
Is like, go buy this watch for $19,000 from this one person that you heard me talk to, and
then go on the secondary market and sell it for like, 22 and make like, three grand or.
Yeah, three grand.
And then do that at scale.
Yeah, and then do that at scale.
And then, like, you know, just.
You can automate this even further.
Like, every time someone gives you that offer, just, like, dispatch a team to go pick it up.
Yeah.
What do you.
What are you people doing listening to us?
Yeah, go do it.
Just go.
Tony, thank you for coming on.
I appreciate you.

Of course,.
For people who don't know Tony, I've included his social media, his socials, where to find
him, follow his journey.
His YouTube is awesome.
That's in the show notes.
He also does, you know thankfully he comes and he does.
You do demos within Startup Empire, don't you?
Yeah, very active on Startup Empire.
I am on the core team as you know.
I was, you know built a lot of the automations that make it possible do a lot of content in
there whenever I can.
What do you, what are some things that you've, you've taught in Startup Empire?
I did a, I did a breakdown of how I built our feedback bot.
So we have another voice AI that basically collects feedback from people who are in Startup
Empire.
So like my big insight was like I hate having to fill out a feedback form every time I'm like
leaving a community.
It's just like too much work and I have too much to say because.
But it's fine if I want to just brain dump but no one will listen to me brain dump.
So wait, why don't I just make a voice AI to listen to someone Brain dump or listen to people
who are leaving Startup Empire Brain dump.
Or people who are happy with Startup Empire Brain dump.
And then we can take that information and categorize it and classify it and use it to improve
the service which is crazy.

So there's a slack.
So for people who don't know Startup Empire is our private membership.
For people who want to build cash flowing Internet businesses we have a slack channel
where I don't know how it does it.
I'm curious Tony.
Actually we've never spoken about this but basically it posts the feedback that people are,
they're calling this like call it a 1, 800 number.
It's not a 100 number but this number.
They're calling this number and they're like I love Startup Empire.
I learned these two, three, two, three things.
Two or three things I really liked or I hate Startup Empire and I wish you would do this
better and it postware slack and it summarizes it.
It's insane.
So then as like me as someone who wants to make to add value to this product.
It's so amazing, right?
Yeah.
We get our feedback.
We don't have to go anywhere to get our feedback.
It comes to us, we get to see it.
It's in the same channel as like our subscription notifications.
Yeah, it's nice.
I think that's actually a Lindy.
It's Lindy, right?

Yeah, I think that's Lindy.
And by the way like someone, here's a free business idea.
Go do that for other companies.
Every company would pay for that.
We should do that, dude.
We should do that.
Sure.
Actually, you know what?
Think about it, like for 300amonth, we'll come and we'll set up, set this up for you and we'll
do the slack bot and we'll manage it for you and we'll send you these pretty reports every
single week.
Yeah.
Is that it?
End of sentence?
End of sentence.
Let's go.
All right, Tony, thanks again.
It's been real.
And give some love.
Give some love to Tony.
And give some love to Tony so that more people see his face.
Go watch the YouTube videos if you haven't already.
Go watch YouTube videos.

He has multiple and actually just one.
For now, but there will soon be multiple, multiple.
And I'll see you around.
All right, see you later, Greg.

