Used to have about 10 people full time. Now you have 1.2 humans, 20 agents.
We have 10 desks that used to be go to market people. They're all just labeled with our
agents Reply for replit quali for qualified arty for artisan. Agentforce needs a nickname.
Agents work all night and they work weekends and they work on Christmas. We're done
with hiring humans in sales.
We're done. The business is doing very similarly to what it was when you had 10 humans.
If I had two more great humans that wanted to join, don't get me wrong, I would hire them
tomorrow. But I'm not going to hire someone that after their third month in the job doesn't
know what Saster does. I just can't do that. AI is replaced displacing the jobs people don't
want to do today. And it is displacing the mid pack and the mediocre.
How do you see the future of the sales profession?
We should have $250,000 a year SDRs. But they'd be like at Vercel. They'd be managing 10
agents, not 10 people. The classic SDR junior kid that is hired out of college to send emails.
We don't need them. Folks that qualify leads coming in, the contact me's that we see. We
have no need for them today. They should be extinct next year.
Someone's listening to this like oh man, my job is in trouble.
If you can go do this, you're hyper employable.
Today my guest is Jason Lemkin, founder and CEO of Saster, the world's largest community
for B2B founders and one of my absolute favorite sales and go to market minds on the
planet. Jason is not only deeply knowledgeable about everything sales, he's also extremely
articulate and direct and is also now personally going super deep on what AI can do for a
sales org.
He's transformed his own Saster sales team from from around 10 SDRs and AES to one full
time AE, a part time Chief of AI named Amelia and 20 AI agents. He is seeing the same
performance from his AI team as he saw with his former human team and he's just getting
started.
These are my favorite kinds of conversations because the guest is living in the future and
comes here to show us what the future is like, where we're headed and how we can get

there ourselves and also just how to avoid all the pitfalls that he had to deal with along the
way. We cover all of the things that he has learned about where sales and go to market is
going in the AI age. He gives a bunch of advice for salespeople and the future of their
careers, the future of the Go to Market.
Org how to win as an AI startup Right now, what tools he's finding most useful, what it took
to shift a sales team, and so much more. This episode is going to get your mind spinning in
the best way possible. If you enjoy this podcast, don't forget subscribe and followed in your
favorite podcasting app or YouTube. It helps tremendously.
And if you become an annual subscriber of my newsletter, you get 19 premium products for
free for an entire year, including a year free of lovable Replit, Bolt, N8N, Gamma, Linear,
Devon, Post Hoc Superhuman, Descript, Whisper Flow, Perplexity Warp, Granola, Magic
Patterns, Raycast, Japier D Mobin and Stripe Atlas. Head on over to Lenny'snewsletter.com
and click product Pass. With that, I bring you Jason Lemkin.
After a short word from our sponsors, today's episode is brought to you by dx, the
developer intelligence platform designed by leading researchers. To thrive in the AI era,
organizations need to adapt quickly, but many organization leaders struggle to answer
pressing questions like which tools are working? How are they being used? What's actually
driving value? DX provides the data and insights that leaders need to navigate this shift.
With DX, companies like Dropbox, Booking.com, adyen and Intercom get a deep
understanding of how AI is providing value to their developers and what impact AI is having
on engineering productivity. To learn more, visit DX's website@detdx.com Lenny that's
getdx.com Lenny this episode is brought to you by V0 from Vercel. V0 is the web
Development assistant designed for professionals of all technical backgrounds.
Whether you're a product manager, designer or developer, transform how you bring
products to life. With V0 everybody can cook. Don't just show up to reviews with docs and
ideas. Arrive with working prototypes that demonstrate real functionality. V0 drafts project
plans, generates interactive interfaces and builds full stack applications without writing a
single line of code. And with features like AI and database integrations, screenshot, import
and sync.
With GitHub, v0 helps reduce development bottlenecks and enhance collaboration between
technical and non technical team members. The result? Faster iteration and a shorter path
from idea to implementation. Vercel built V0 for the builders who want to create at the
moment of inspiration. If you can dream it, you can ship it. Visit vercel.comlenny to get
started. That's vercel com sl Lenny, Jason, thank you so much for being here and welcome
back to the podcast.
Lucky to be a super fan and then to get to join. Right. It's, it's, it's terrific to, to, to be on the

other side.
So this is our second conversation. We did our last conversation a year and a half ago. I
don't know if you know this, but it became a pretty legendary episode. It's something people
continue to share and that conversation is around basically a deep dive into building your
sales. Org. And a lot has changed for you and the world since then. Cough AI. And what's
happened is you've gone extremely deep on what AI enables for sales for startups, for go to
market.
And what I love about conversations like this is you're basically living in the future and
you're here to give us a glimpse of where things are heading and tell us how to avoid the
wrong turns and just help us get there ourselves.
That I think I can do to start. Yes.
Help us understand just the business you run. This Saster.
Yeah.
What is it you sell? What is the business? What is it? What is it you do? Jason?
You know, I'm still trying to figure it out, Lenny. Maybe you are too in some ways.
Yeah, that's true.
So you know, I, I, I am a two time founder who started writing a blog. My God, in 2012 about
all the mistakes I made. After I sold my startup to Adobe we started doing a couple meetups.
You've done meetups before anyone did this stuff. We did a big meetup in 2015. Thousands
of people came then. We do 10,000 people a year at Saster annual. I've actually also invested
almost $200 million, almost 10x lifetime only into founders from the community.
But the reason I don't know is what I folks that do are connected to our content. I'm just
passionate about helping other founders see mistakes and make less of them. Sonia, we're a
large community. I do invest, but it turned into a business. There was no revenue in the
beginning. I'm sure there was no revenue for Lenny in the beginning and ours was less
intentional. But we do do eight figures of revenue a year and it's work. That sounds great.
Okay to do eight figures but there's a lot of costs, especially on the event side. The media
side has almost no cost and it's work. We have a hundred sponsors and as you know, like
you have sponsors. But there's a certain level where it becomes a lot of work like getting
two folks to sponsor Your podcast with a couple emails. No work. Right. If you wanted to
have like four Lenny podcast, like it just, it just scales.

So we have built our own go to market team over time and I've lived the frustrations, folks
have followed it and then maybe I'm rambling a little bit. The interesting thing, the aha
moment that happened to us is going into May of this year we had one AI agent into
production called Delphi that we both use for digital Lenny and digital Jason. Really
interesting learnings.
And we went into our 10,000 person event this year with, with an eight, you know, a seven
figure budget and eight figure top line and two folks on the sales team who are were paid
high end of market. I have many flaws, but paying well and being loyal are not one of them.
And two of them just quit at the event. They just quit on site. Okay. And I, this was like the
third time I've done this. Like the eighth team I've built.
And I turned to Amelia, our chief A officer and I said we're done with hiring humans in sales.
We're done.
We are going to push the limits with agents. We're going to put even if it doesn't quite work.
Okay. And I knew from this Delphi, this general agent that it would sort of work because
going into annual, this general agent, this digital Jason closed a 70k sponsorship on its own.
So when I saw that a horizontal agent not trained for sales, not trained for GTM could close
one deal or like let's deploy a couple of these apps, we have time. And I just can't pay a
junior SDR $150,000 a year to quit.
I just can't like criticize me. But I just couldn't do it one more time. I just couldn't do it one
more. And I actually think this isn't. When I talk to cos at leading AI companies, they kind of
don't want to do it either. They want to have the smallest sales teams they can as much for
cultural reasons. Right. Even if, even if replit only goes from 0 to 200, it could have been 220
with the smaller sales team. I think Amjad's okay with it. Right. So it's an enduring thing.
But anyhow, so we push the limits. And now if you walk into Sastor's office, it's kind of
funny. We have 10 desks that used to be go to market people. They're all just labeled with
our agents. Repli for replit, quality for qualified, arty for artisan agent force needs A
nickname. Maybe we can make one up with Salesforce. There's Amelia's corner office at one
end. I'm in the, I'm in the back of the office. And it's just agents. It's the quietest office. And
net net. Lenny, it's about.
Here's the meta learning for when we, when we're recording this. The pro, the. Net
productivity is about the same. It's not better, it's not worse, but it's so much more efficient.
And it scales because software scales. So. And we can talk about what we've learned. I think
it's important that it takes time to train these agents.
They don't work out of the box, but when you dial them in, when you take your best person
or your best script and you train an agent with your best person and best script, that agent

can start to become a version of your best salesperson, your best person. And that's what
we've learned and how to perfect it. And I just think because. And criticize me. Anybody you
or anyone watching or listening, maybe it's not cool.
I didn't want to hire my 28th rep that was going to quit, but I just couldn't do it one more
time. In the age of AI, I'm like, it's time to go to the bleeding edge and just see what we can
push the limits here.
Okay. I love all the directions we're already heading. Okay, so just to help people totally
understand what your business is, basically these people are selling sponsors for your
conferences.
They're selling two things because it's just relevant to the deep dive. They're selling
sponsorships which average about 70 to 80k. And then they're also selling tickets, which is
the high volume for this is like the self serve version. They're selling tickets that are
anywhere from a couple hundred bucks to. If you're a VC that comes the night before, could
be two grand. Okay. No gifts for VCs that decide the night before, founders that decide early.
Get it about 20% of cost.
And it's work to sell these tickets, right? And so you can just post an email like you do and
you probably fill up Lenny Summit. But if you want to max it out, you got to do work, you
got to do drip campaigns, you got to reach out to people. You have to reactivate folks that
came to Lenny's Summit, you know, three years ago. But you want them back because
they're good people and that just requires work.
And as your base scales, you know, you have how many people subscribe to Lenny's
newsletter now. 1.2 Million or something.
1.2 Million roughly.
Okay, how many as, how many of those is a human willing to reach out to approaching
nuns? Imagine you hired a 21 year old SDR fresh out of junior college and said, here's my
list, 1.2 million people. Start calling them. I want him to come to Lenny Summit. But anyhow,
so we have this low end version which is tickets, right. Which is 4 or 5 million a year.
And then we have this higher end sales cycle and they're very different and actually they
have different agents and then we have a different agent to get people to come back. Lapsed
people. So we have lapsed high end and low end agents and they have different workflows
and we actually use different vendors. For now. For now we use different vendors.
Okay. And so previously, before this future world, how many SDRs did you have? How many
salespeople?

In this we would have two to three SDRs and up to five AES.
Okay, so like eight, nine people full time working on Saster to bring in sponsors and to bring
in tickets.
Yes. Although, yes, a lot of it is inbound and renewals. But not. But yes to, to manage that
business, to manage sales. Go to market. Let's call 8 to 9 and go to market. Now we have 1.2,
1.2 humans.
Human. 1.2 Humans.
20 Agents. AI agents.
1 Point. What is a 0.2 human?
Amelia, who's our chief A officer who, who runs everything, she spends 20% of her time
managing the agents, orchestrating the agents.
Okay.
Which is something I think people don't,.
Let's get into that.
They talk about, but they don't actually understand what that means.
Yeah. Okay. I definitely want to spend time there. Okay. So used to have about 10 people full
time. Now you have 1.2 humans. And you said 20 agents.
20 Agents, yeah.
Okay. And what you're describing is the business is doing very similarly to what it was
when you had 10 humans. Now you have 20 agents, the business doing the same.
Yeah. Now listen, if I had two more great humans that wanted to join, don't get me wrong,
and this is true of every fast growing startup, I would hire them tomorrow. Okay. And if you
go, if you go to Vercel, if you go to Replit, if you go to, they're all going to tell you the same. I
was literally in London. We were just at our London event. We were with, with Maggie
who's in the leadership of OpenAI. She said they just can't Hire enough enterprise reps now.
Okay, but what it is replacing are the mid pack and below. The ones that don't really
understand what linear does. The ones that don't really know what a pull request is or
exactly how replit works. The AI can do better not than the best, right? So I would love to

have more humans, but I'm not going to hire someone that after their third month in the job
doesn't know what saster does. I just can't do that one more time. And you don't need to. I
don't think you need to. So we're not doing.
This is the thing. AI is replacing the jobs people don't want to do today and it is displacing
the media, the mid pack and the mediocre.
They are.
Their jobs are at risk. They are at risk. The best humans. It is true that they will get
superpowers from AI, but I'm not sure the rest will. It's a. It's a cautionary tip, but I would
love to have more than one. But at the end of the day, 1.2 humans is plus 20A agents is doing
about what 10 human GTM did.
Wow. Okay. I want to spend time on the different agents you've built. But first of all, just
kind of zooming out. Having gone through this experience, how do you see the world of go
to market changing next year, in the coming years?
All the plays work. It's the playbooks that are kind of broken in the age of AI, all the plays
work. Outbound still works. Webinars still works. Podcasts still work. Okay. Events still
work. All this stuff works. All this stuff works. Why is 11 labs out doing a roadshow? Right?
It works. Why? Why do they go on Lenny's podcast? It works. So the plays all work.
It's just the playbooks are broken because for folks that aren't in the age of AI, growth has
decelerated so much that nothing seems to work. Okay, it's working. It just works so much
worse than 2021. But the plays still work. They just. They don't have enough ROI. There's
not enough budget for old school SaaS from 2021. The ones that are blowing up, right, the
vercels, the replits, the 11 labs, they have so much demand.
So much demand that you know that they're still running the plays, but they're. They're
doing them differently. They're doing them from a hyper PLG focus because there's so much
demand and they're often picking and Choosing which prospects to talk to, contact. So like
for example, Bolt is probably a distant number three behind Replin and Lovable, right?
But one of my old sales guys run sales there and I talked to him when they went from zero
to 50 million in like six months, he's like, we honestly just have so many leads. We just. Our
half our job is picking which ones to respond to, right? And he's like, and he also is like, we
closed a seven figure deal we stole from Lovable because no one called them back at
Lovable.
So your traditional B2B SaaS company, even ones with billions of revenue, even the
hubspots and all of them, they don't have so many great leads, they don't call them back. So
that is a different world. Not easy different world. And then this world where nothing seems

to be working is just because the demand has evaporated, right? So both ends have an
incentive in 2026 to push the limits for AI, for go to market. The ones that are hyper
growing can't touch everybody. They can't do everything.
Not everyone, like Vercel, will build their own internally. We can talk about why most folks
should not build, they should buy for the same reasons. It's always been true in software.
We can talk about it. At the low end, you still need humans, but ruthless efficiency is going
to be the name of the game for 2026. So anything where AI works, the demand is
inexhaustible. So everyone's either looking for more efficiency or they just can't service the
massive amount of inbound they have.
And so maybe that doesn't totally answer your question or I got a little bit off track, but
that's how the world's changing. Like when we first did this, which wasn't that long ago in a
way, pre the AI explosion, all B2B companies were kind of the same. Like they grew at
somewhat different rates. Some blew up faster like a Samsara, some took longer like a UI
path, but come on, they were all, they all kind of grew the same way for the same acv, for the
same deal size.
Now, just like in venture and everything else, it's wildly bifurcated, right? You've got the low
end, which is all about price increases and forcing things onto the base. And at the high end
we have something we've never seen since 2020, which is everyone in the market at once.
Everyone in the market at once. This is something that people don't understand. Why, why
are, why are these companies doing so well? Why are they blowing up because they're. It's
not just that the software.
We love this stuff, Lenny. Right. All these new tools, we love them. But it's not one law firm
looking at Harvey. It's everyone. It's everyone, right? It's not a few folks looking at video on
the Internet. It's everyone trying to make video on the Internet.
Because there's a lot of push from the top of like, we need to adopt AI. We need to be more
productive now.
Everyone. Not the traditional. Like the traditional metric was. In most categories, 3 to 5% of
prospects would be in market a year. So you'd send a trillion emails and you do cold calls
and you'd hope maybe 2026 was the time they're willing to dump Salesforce for your new
product. So at all that up 5% in many categories, we're north of 50% in market, so that just
totally changes the plays still work.
Showing up in person, actually knowing what the hell you're selling, knowing how to get
through procurement, all of those are work. But other than these weird windows, artificial
windows in 2020, we've never had so many people in market at once.
And this is for AI products specifically or yeah, that.

That have massive roi.
Yeah, productivity.
I want. I. I need to bring a vibe code tool into my company. Lenny. Okay. Go out and do the
work. Compare Replit lovable and whoever else and buy one. Okay. Har. Like why Harvey
and the others in Laora doing so. I mean they're great tools, but everyone's like, we need to
automate how we review contracts and documents with AI now they want a leader and
they're going to do it and that will slow down. Like not everybody can be in market every
year. It. It's exhaust an enterprise.
So this is a version of the AI bubble that will end and we will revert in some ways to old
school. But when everybody's in market, it just changes how you run the whole thing. So the
fastest growing ones and the slowest growing ones both have incentives to use AI here just
for different reasons.
How about the sales profession specifically? Are SDRs going to be replaced fully AES? How
do you see the future of the sales profession?
The classic SDR junior kid that is hired out of college to send emails and respond. Respond
to inbound emails and maybe get back to them later that day or the next day. We don't need
them. We're not going to need most of them. SDRs that knock on doors in a lot of industries
aren't going to be displaced right the email based cadence SDR will be 90% displaced by AI
next year. The people have different nomenclature I call BDRs.
Folks that qualify leads coming in the contact knees that we see, we have no need for them
today. They should be extinct next year. There is no reason in the age of AI I have to hit
contact me. Wait a day or two for a 21 year old that doesn't know what linear does to say
hey, what do you do? How much are you willing to pay me? Maybe I'll set up a call with
Lenny later this week. There is no need to do that with AI. Our AI alone, one of our agents
fully qualifies everybody on the website.
So they don't even know they're being qualified. It just sets up the meeting with the
salesperson. So this sdr, this email based SDR and this human qualifying leads which is not
good for the customer, it doesn't feel good to be qualified, does it? They will be mostly
extinct next year I'm guessing with your now the ae, the classic human doing the sales, most
of the tools aren't there yet for the most part.
I think 70% of their jobs will be safe by the end of next year but I think it will decline to 40
or 50. I don't think there's any reason what we're seeing in other categories a great agent
can't close a deal too if there's not a lot to negotiate on price and the agent knows the
product better than a human. At least for folks like you and me. I mean do you like to talk to

a human in sales?
Sometimes I'd rather just shot the chat with a. Yeah, a really smart AI.
Yeah. So that's all in progress now but the classic and the tough part and a lot of folks ask
this question Lenny, they say okay Jason, I see that in your data. How are we going to build
the sales profession if there's no entry level jobs in SDRs and AES? And that's a meta
question across all of AI we're already seeing AI concentrate strength in sort of mid tier
folks, isn't it?
And we're already seeing lots of folks cut back on entry level hires, know, Shopify and
others aside, where they'd rather have the six or seven year old engineer that's a cursor
machine rather than train some kid. It's just more efficient today, right? I'm sure you see
that across a lot of folks you talk to. It's going to happen in sales too. So the folks that know
how to manage an agent, work with an agent.
The folks that know their product for real, they're going to become more valuable and the
rest are going to become less valuable.
It's interesting because I'm an investor in a bunch of startups, as are you and I'm actually
seeing a lot of asks for go to market people, salespeople. Do you think this is kind of a
temporary because there's so much demand, they're like, oh, we need people to help and
then this will start to become more AI over time or are they just looking for these really
senior people that you're talking about?
Well listen, whether you're managing humans or orchestrating agents, you need leadership.
We've yet to produce an autonomous CEO. I know folks talk about how on on Twitter that
will AI will replace the CEO, but I don't know that that's literal as much as figurative. Right.
So we're still going to need the C suite, we're still going to need VPs. I mean it's become so
much work to manage a million leads, right? A half a million leads. So we need these leaders.
Whether the question is, and I've seen your call out there and I saw your tweet on it, the
question is how many of the folks that had the current playbooks are the right folks for the
future? I'm thinking maybe 20% of the folks I talk to, 24 are still panicking about AI. And I'll
tell you how to not how to be in the 20% if you want to know. But I think very few like the
Janine from Vercel are going to make the jump. So we'll see. There will be huge
organizations, right?
Like Denise just went from Slack and Salesforce after 14 years to be CRO OpenAI. She's
working going to be pretty high level, right? So she may not know how to need to know how
to implement the agents. But most of the folks your companies want to hire, I would just
make sure they could. They really want to roll up their sleeves and do the job of 2026, 2027,
right. Just because they worked at Slack does not necessarily mean they have the skills at

your startup.
You said that you had some tips for folks to actually be this 20%. What are some. If
someone's listening to this like oh man, my job is in trouble, what should I focus on?
It's going to sound simple, it will work and most almost nobody's doing this. Pick a tool, an
agent, an agentic tool to solve one of your problems. It doesn't Almost just one that's the
most painful or the one that's most acute. It could be support, it could be sdr, it could be
inbound qualification. Pick one, pick a leading vendor. I don't care which one it is, okay? We
can talk about how to pick a vendor, but pick a leading vendor that treats you well, that you
like, and do it yourself.
Train the agent, ingest the data, do the iterations, understand how the damn thing works,
okay? The folks that are lost today have never done it. We literally, we've turned into a
consulting shop. Lenny. It's kind of crazy. I don't know what I think about it, but we literally
just did a job. Amelia, our chief AI officer and Mia, she drove it. We did a call with a public
B2B company worth well over 10 billion that you would think is an AI leader, okay?
And we did a call with their team and they're like, we're struck. We want to figure out this
AI SDR stuff. Like, great. You're like, we think we're just going to buy this tool and just give it
to our SDRs to figure it out on their own. Okay, one, no chance. Two, we asked them, how
much of this have you done yourself? Like, have you, have you done it yourself? And it was
just crickets on this call of 20 people. No one had done it theirself.
So they thought they could take an untrained agent with no training and just magically give
it to a bunch of young 20 year old SDRs and this magically would sell on its own. It doesn't
work that way, right? So the way all these agents work is you. There's a lot of jargon which
is intimidating. Ingestion, orchestration training, it's not that hard, guys. It's just different.
It's the same B2B stuff we've been doing for over a decade.
You go to a website, okay, you give it a URL of your website, you give it a URL of what your
wiki is, you give it a URL of your training docs, maybe you upload your prospectus, you
upload a few documents, it ingests the data. And ingesting means it uploads it means it
processes the data and it does some other stuff you don't really need to know. Some
bragging, some vectoring, it really doesn't matter. You, you upload some stuff and it kind of
knows it and isn't great at it.
And then it will turn it into, ideally it will turn it into questions and you answer These
questions and they will be get the more you answer and train it. Training is just answering
questions and getting better and better. So first you upload a bunch of your stuff, then you
spend hours training it, often with the help of a vendor, someone called a forward deploy
engineer, which is a scary term. It means someone that's going to help you do this.

You upload your stuff, you try to get it right and then you basically have to make sure it's
right. QA testing and every day when that AISDR sends out emails and do practice emails,
they will say some dumb things. Maybe it's hallucinations, it really doesn't matter what the
technical term is. And you correct it and each and if you do this for 30 days, then every day
you spend an hour or two correcting those mistakes by the 30th day it's going to be pretty
good.
And this is anyone can do this that has been in B2B or SaaS. Anyone can do what I just
described. It is not that different than other things we've done. It's just sequenced
differently. But nobody does this. Everyone's panicked. And if you, if you can go do this, pick
any tool, pick, pick agent force, pick qualified, pick artisan, pick whatever you want. If you
can go do this and get it live into production, you're hyper employable.
All the companies you talked about that you GTM person they will hire you could be a
magically be their chief agentic GTM officer because almost anyone can do this if they want
to. It's just going to take a month of your time and it might take you 50 or 60 hours plus
qualifying the vendor right? And in the old days like when we diverse did our podcast, you'd
hire an agency and disappear. That's how you do this stuff don't it don't work that the
agencies don't know how to do this.
You've got to do it yourself. But if you do, man, you will rock. You will, you will just rock and
you will learn, right? You will learn and you will learn the limits and you will learn the agent
can what it can do and where it can't do and then you will learn how to do the next one
right? So like we're pretty far on agent force, which is Salesforce is one which Mark talks a
lot about. But we're probably one of the only organizations of our size on it.
I will tell you a cheat code which is pretty interesting. So we've got, we had three of these
agents working for sales after training it and learning it and spending months time to learn
it, we got it down to one prompt. And prompt is another almost intimidating word. A string
of text that describes what you want this thing to do. Okay, we took that prompt and gave it
to Agent Force. Then a day was pretty good. So you will, if you can do one of these, it'll be
really hard, it'll be brutal.
Then the second one will be easier and then you're going to be like the master of the
universe in AI if you can do it yourself. But if you're waiting for people on your team to do it,
if you're waiting for an agency to do it, I think you're going to be out of a job. Right. So this is
like everyone comes to us as an experts. We're not only experts because we did it 20 times.
I think what might be helpful here actually is to do a tour, kind of a quick tour of the agents
that you've built and what they do, which ones have been most impactful and then as you do
that, what products you use, what, what powers these agents that, that you like and maybe
don't like.

If, if anyone goes to saster AI slash agents, you'll see everything we built, it's all bulleted out.
You can copy us and I'll walk you through it. But two, two caveats are things that I built a lot
of stuff in replit. We can talk about it for fun. I'm like a top 1% user. I love it. None of the
GTM stuff we built ourselves. Don't build it yourself. You're not vercel, you don't have a full
time, wicked awesome engineer that wants to build this. Could all this stuff be built
yourself?
It's the same idea of building your own notion. You could do it, but don't do it. It's these
products are expensive. They're not so expensive. It's worth. And then maintaining the pace
of innovation is so fast. Even if you can hire someone to build it internally, it will become
obsolete if you're not careful in a couple months. So we've built a lot of stuff we could talk
about. I built a calculator to do startup calculations used 800,000 times in 90 days.
For valuation?
Yeah, for valuations. I built a pitch deck reviewer that' reviewed almost 3,000 pitch decks.
Lots of fun stuff, but none of the GTM stuff we built ourselves. None of it. So just a caveat,
don't build it yourself unless you're vercel, unless you have a reason that was a great pod. It
was wonderful. Don't do it. Don't do that.
Basically, unless you have a awesome go.
To market engineers for and they really want to do it, they really are chomping at the bit to
do it. Don't do it. So I started and this is not where other folks would start, but there's some
learnings I started. There's an app called Deli which makes digital clones and you used it for
the Lenny Bot a long time ago. I saw you do it. What's that? Yeah, lennybot.com, yeah, I saw
it a long time ago. It was interesting, but it didn't click.
And then Brian Halligan, who's the founder chairman of HubSpot, did one too. There's
Sequoia backed and he was working at Sequoia, so he helped them early on. And then I kind
of had a magic moment and this is the way it works in AI when I saw the combination of the
two. So yours was real. Like, people should love moneybot because it's got.
It's.
If folks haven't tried it, try it. It is ingested. I know a scary term for some. It is ingested.
Every single interview you've ever done, right? Every word of content you've written. So.
And it can combine them all together. It can combine the Vercel story and the. And what you
did with Dylan at Figma and can synthesize the knowledge and it's pretty good. It's pretty
good.
What I liked about Brian's better than yours though, was that it was Brian and Lenny Bot is
kind of Lenny, but it's also kind of all your guess, right? I think that's the superpower of it,

right?
That's the way I think about it. It's not just my intelligence, the. The lessons of every single
person I've had on this podcast.
So it's great. But I thought, hey, maybe I could finally do one that's. That's in between the
two. Like, I. I've been a founder and I. And I've written 10,000 pieces of content. So that's a
little bit like Brian, but I have more than Brian and I'm not Lenny in terms of productivity,
but I've got a lot of voices, so I'm like, I'll try it. I used Delphi. I instantly broke it because I
had too much data to ingest. It took about a week to get going and it worked. And people.
And it's just like you people, some people spend hours a day on digital Jason in another
browser. And they don't do what they do with Lenny, but they'll. They'll ask about their
sales woes and what to do with their sales team and they'll. And they'll upload LinkedIn and
ask if they should hire people. And then a curious thing happened, which is that because we
do these events, people started to use it for questions for the events. Hey, how do I get a
refund? Hey, can I get a discount?
Hey, where is the San Mateo County Fairgrounds? So Jason lies. That's really in the San
Francisco Bay area. Like, who's speaking? Or. And like, there's endless questions, right? And
we used to use prefin Intercom and we're so busy, we would answer like two weeks later.
Like, it was the worst support ever. And the agent just started doing support on its own. And
then it did this thing where it sold sponsorship on its own. Right? So. So start. You can start
with.
So one place to start if you haven't started is in support. Okay? And you don't have to buy
Sierra and you don't have to buy Decacon necessarily. And you don't have to buy Fin. But
one potential place to start is. Is your support. Like, can you do great 24. 7 Support? Can
you. Most. Most apps can't. In fact, some of the worst offenders are AI leaders. They have no
support at all on their website. So that's one place to start.
And then the next place we started, okay, so for us, the Logan for the next place we started
is, hey, we want to try Outbound, okay. Because we don't have 1.2 million names like you
have, but we have like 400,000. Okay. And we have data on them. So we wanted to say,
come, come back to our Saster event. So we didn't know what to use. And I'll tell you
something. So we picked a YC company called Artisan. They've gone like, from like nothing
to 10 million this year.
We picked them, but it's important why they were at. They were a sponsor at Sastra. We
didn't know and they offered to help us the most. This is the critical insight. We didn't know
if Artisan was the. I have opinions now. We hadn't deployed it, but another Vendor argued.
The CRO argued with us. He said, I need 100k up front before I help you. Okay. Another one
said they were scared of Saster. They didn't want bad PR if it failed. Fair.

Oh, yeah. Certain companies, we don't want to be your first okay.
And Artisan said we'll do it. And we had nothing. And here's an interesting thing about
agentic stuff. It's like support if you have nothing. Like it doesn't have to like change the
world if you're literally doing nothing and you start to do something that's high roi, like
you're going to get return. Right. So we did that one. We trained it. It's great. We did about
60,000 emails, saw pretty high rates. Then we said, well we'll try inbound.
We like, we don't want to have this depressing experience where a salesperson quits and
it's two weeks later until they talk to it. So we use this vendor called Qualified which was
founded by the X CMO of Salesforce that does a lot now, but mostly focused on qualified
stuff that immediately worked. Like we had someone at 11pm on Saturday night that
wanted to sponsor and they sponsored and it worked and it worked great. But again they
helped us.
And this is an agent that is emailing with prospect selling them on a sponsor.
Well, if literally if you go to saster annual.com and anyone should buy a product like this, it
doesn't have to be Qualified. And the bubble, the intercom like bubble.
Okay, gotcha.
Is tuned to qualifying inbound prospects. Folks that say, hey, I want to sponsor Lenny's
podcast. Sorry, we're sold out through 2028 but if you want to be on the wait list, sign up
here. Okay. Or, or even better for us, it would qualify folks out that weren't a good fit. Right.
It would save so much time and it would do it 24 hours. Then it would just set up the
meeting. So the reason that was a great second one was because no one was willing to do
that.
No human was willing to pick up the phone and talk to these people. So it was such low
hanging fruit. Um, but the key to the first two and, and if you're going to pick an agent is
they, they offered to help the most. You're I at the end of the day, Lenny, these are all
running on Claude 4. They're all basically using a bunch of APIs mashed together. That's not
new to software, right? Mashing a bunch of APIs into the hood. But deep down I don't want
to get anybody trigger anybody.
Many of these leader the leaders in AI gtm, they're more similar than different. They're
more similar and different under the hood. It doesn't mean the features are parody. So
because you have to train them, because it takes A month. The world's best software with
no help training you is not 1 99% of people should buy. So today, in the old days we would
qualify the best software, we would make a matrix and we would do their thing and we
would compare features and do it.

You got to do another column, which is your forward deployed engineer or solution
architect or your search and talk to them and say, who is going to help me? And before you
write a check, get on the phone with Lenny and see if Lenny's really going to do deployment.
And if Lenny rocks and the other vendor is better and won't help you, don't do it. And that's
why we've had so much success is the first two we did. Yeah, they were startups, right? So
they worked harder.
But Artisan and Qualified just did the work with us. And we're not stupid, but it was work,
we needed help. Right? And so that's what I learned is you have this partner, the FD and the
vendor and, and a lot of them actually might not take your business if they don't think they
can help you. The best ones turn away a lot of business today. Which is interesting, right?
Interesting.
Learning from this for folks is a lot of folks say, and they would say to you, if you use these,
Lenny, they say you have too much data. Saster is not like us, we're a startup, we're tiny. You
have 400,000 people in your database. Lenny is 1.2 million. It's not like that's, I, I got, I, I, I
only have 300 customers. Okay. Or 200 customers. What I've learned is that's wrong. If you
have 300 customers, how many folks have come to your website ever? 30,000. How many
leads do you have?
How many folks in your database? How many folks have you tried to reach out before? More
than a human's doing. And they all of a sudden they have a haha moment like how many
folks do you have in your HubSpot? Right? How many folks do you have in your CRM? They
look it up. 31,000. Okay, how many folks do you have talking to them? Zero. You don't need
the scale of numbers that you and I have to make these agents work.
You need a little bit of scale and you need a little bit of traffic, but not as much as you think.
So all the learnings, we have a lot of folks that honestly they don't want to do the work.
They're like, well, Sassner has a lot of scale. They have a lot of years it's not true. And it
turns out to also be like true with the training. I'm sure you've seen it with Lennybot. Like I
thought having 12 years of content made the difference.
Nah, it's having like a couple months of really good content and a long tail beyond that. But
you don't need as deep training and as much as you think, you just need a bit to be really
good. So anyone that has any skill whatsoever, even a couple million of revenue and up, can
benefit from these products. Right? So we did Horror General, General Bot got us to a
certain place. Then we did STR for Outbound, then we did Inbound, and then we did Agent
Force really early with Salesforce.
And we didn't know what to do with Agent Force at first, right. But we decided we would
reactivate the folks that sales decide was not worth their time, folks that reached out to
sales. And this is true at every startup. We even just talked about some of the AI leaders

where a human says, you know what, I don't think this is enough commission. I'm kind of
busy. I got a $4 million deal with Meta going. We just took Asian Force just on those. Okay.
And we trained it on very similar prompt.
It had 70% response rate. Those are people that were dying to interact with us. 70% Is so
good at. And this is something humans were not willing to do. It wasn't worth their time.
And I know this sounds critical and maybe I'm going to trigger some sales folks, but the
reality is if you know, if you're in a lead rich environment, okay. And I think that there's lead
rich and lead poor environments for even big companies. But startups, like there's not
enough. But eventually you become lead rich.
Okay. Reps just don't follow up with a lot of them. It's just human nature. It's even you. I bet
more folks want to sponsor the newsletter than you can let in, right? Do you, do you pick up
the phone with all of them?
I reply to all of them and then we just tell them where we're full.
But yeah, but you see the point, right? Even your scale, you see the point, right?
Yeah, yeah. It gets challenging.
And let's imagine all of a sudden you had six months of inventory available. I bet if you
spooled up an agent and emailed all those folks back automatically you'd fill up. You fill up
the docket, right? So anyone can do these sorts of. You think you can't unless you're so small
that you have sufficient humans to talk with every potential lead, every person that touches
your website, every person that clicks with anything you can benefit from AI. So that was
kind of our journey.
And then we've done a lot of other niche stuff. I'll tell you at the end, the. Where we are
today, this is a, maybe this is almost too much learning is we're at the point where maybe
we can't do one more. Because right now, when we, when we did Delphi, in the beginning,
when I copied you with Delphi, even me, I spent almost an hour a day training it in the
beginning, because when we started to use it for support, it had an initial. It started telling
people the wrong dates. Okay.
And we could talk about why. So I had to fix it. And it made some mistakes. And so when
people started to use it, I had to spend an hour each morning firing up Delphi, reviewing the
issues and answering them. I don't have to do it anymore. It's well trained. We have so many
agents going in so many emails that Amelia has to spend, you know, 10 to 15 hours a week
reviewing the outputs. And it's exhausting because agents work all night and they work
weekends and they work on Christmas.
It's a big issue, right? This is not being the orchestrator or the chief AI person is not a good

job for lazy people because the agents never sleep. Right? So it is so much time now to
manage these 20. This is interesting. We can't, I don't know when we're going to do the 21st.
We may be full. And for folks that are startups, this is a reason to go harder because
everyone was in market this year, okay, everyone. And it's going to keep happening.
But business process change remains an issue for business software. Business process
change at the end of the day. And so many founders get this wrong. And 99% of sales folks,
they don't care about business process chain Salesforce, they just want to get their
commission. It doesn't really matter what you pay for an app for, for a customer, as long as
it's fair. It's all the work to do to change the way you do your business. Right? And so we're
even.
We're at the point where we're overloaded, right? And so just be aware if you're, if you're a
startup or even Salesforce or HubSpot, maybe, maybe close those deals in the next 12
months because the window may close where people say, listen, that's the coolest agent I've
ever seen. I'm exhausted from the Last five. I had to do five last year. I just can't, literally
cannot bring one more app into my enterprise.
And so that's going to be a headwind that today everything seems like it has tailwinds.
Right. Everything's on fire. But people are going to get exhausted for having so many agents.
Exhausted, man. Okay. There's so much to, to learn from in what you just shared. Something
I definitely want to ask about as people hear this. Agents sending off emails, agents talking
to your clients. We get, I get a ton of emails that, that are terrible.
Yes.
What have you learned about making these outbound emails good and not just, you know,
noise? How do you make these conversations high quality? How do you.
It's a really, really, really good question. So the two, maybe the two biggest learnings, take
your best person on your sales team, the best marketer you have, take their email copy and
use that as the template for your AI. If you. The terrible mistake people make. Everyone in
2024 said these products didn't work. There were two reasons they didn't work. It was
before Claude 4. Right. Replit didn't work. Lovable didn't exist. Gamma didn't really work
before 2025.
Right before cloud like the LMS reached this point where they would work for these use
cases. So that was one threshold. The other thing that happened in 2024 is the vendors kind
of lied and said, just turn the product on, it'll get you revenue. No, no needing to train it. No
need to do anything. We'll just do everything. As this magic AI savant. It's not, it's not the
way it works.

This way what you do is an agent will be successful and go to market and sales today if you
take what works for your best person. Train. I know this seems like a scary term, but it's
not. Upload that text. Okay. Train the agent on it and let it iterate an A B test from that.
Agents are really good at AB testing. They're really good at creating variants. AI is like ask
Claude or chat for a variant of your best email. Say, give me three versions of my best email.
They'll be pretty good.
That's all the agent has to do is take your best email you ever sent and stick it through an
API and go. It's. I'm making it sound simpler than it is, but not by too much. So train it and
then what it'll do and then give it some data sources and the data source could be as simple
as salesforce. Okay. And then if it has Any data on Lenny, it can pull data and it can lightly
personalize that email. Okay?
And even better, a lot of these products track all the visitors to your website so they can see
what's happened and they use other APIs and so they can personalize your emails more.
And so what ends up happening is the emails that the AIs write are pretty good. Okay? If
you're getting terrible emails, it's a poorly trained product from a bad vendor. You should
be getting emails when you get them and you're like, this isn't as good as Jason said on
Lenny's podcast, but it's pretty good. Okay?
That's what AI can do today. And the magic is if a human isn't even doing that, or if your
mediocre humans are worse. And I'll tell you, you know, one of the first lessons I learned
when my last startup was acquired by Adobe, Sam Blonde was one of our sales leaders.
Then he became Sierra of Brax and others. And he we inherited a bunch of reps from Adobe.
We didn't ask for them. And he's like, my God, I never read everyone's emails before. These
are the worst emails I've ever read.
So the AI can do better than that. The AI can do better than that. And so you just train it on
your best and it'll be pretty good. And so you just haven't seen a well trained agent. And
then what I learned, and then another question folks ask is, okay, Jason, that email was
pretty good. It wasn't as great as you said on stage, but it was pretty good. But do you tell
people it's an AI or do you hide it? And what we learned from sending hundreds of
thousands is it does matter people.
We're in an age where people don't really care as long as the email adds value and they
know they're going to get an instant response. We've tried both, we've tried to say, hey, it's
digital Amelia or digital Jason. We've tried to fake it. And what we've learned is now we just
send it. We just send it and no one cares. And sometimes we'll get, especially founders will
get an email back. They'll be like, haha, I can tell this is an AI, but it's pretty good. Can I do a
meeting?
That kind of says it all, doesn't it? So we're worrying about creating issues as excuses to not
do the work.

Your point about how human salespeople's emails are not great already is really powerful
because all we're looking at is these okay emails from AI and you're saying okay, but
humans, they're not actually that much better. If you actually look at them, My.
God, they're not the bet. Listen, the best outbound emails you've ever gotten, like for
example, I know you've done a bunch of investments to. A lot of them are inbound to you.
They want Lenny involved, right?
That's right.
Some of them are just so good you can't believe it. Right? A few, yeah. How many are that?
But, but a lot of them aren't. Right?
Right.
So like the best founders and the best sales execs and the best SDRs will spend two hours
researching an email. Okay. Who exactly the IBM should I reach out to? What did IBM? Who
else exactly is a competitor that's using them. Exactly what was the roi? They'll give you a
perfect story. Like if you get the world's best story, here's your competitor, here's how they
use it, here's exactly when they bought, here's the roi, here's the case study. That's gonna,
that's a great email, right?
How many 21 year old SDRs do that? No, they, they use an automation tool, whether it's
outreach or Gong or salesoft or Mixmax or an AI based but they do no work. It's not gonna
be that great. It's not gonna be that great. So that's why for, for people getting a little
confused, the bar for good enough for aigtm, it's not as high as we think. It's just like, you
know, a facsimile of your best person reproduced as best we can. It's gonna beat your mid
pack person.
It's gonna beat the person that literally knows nothing about your product.
Is this, is this an opportunity for humans to continue to thrive? This layer of much better
emails. This came up when I had Jen Abel on the podcast. She asked her like what tools do
you use? What do you use? She's like nothing. I just write it out artisanally and it works
really well because everyone's sending AI emails. Is this just like where go to market
salespeople still can exist? That's much better email.
Or is that also for. If you have a high performing human team hunting high dollar value
logos and when this is classic stuff, letting I and Jenner in a conference room, we put a
whiteboard of the 50 best folks that we want to sponsor Lenny's podcast. There's only 50.
Okay. And we write notion and we write linear and we write repl. There's only 50, it's a
three. And we're all trying to sell them these new sponsorships. They're, they're, they're half

a million bucks for two years.
Take it or leave it. Okay. And I give, we divide them up and we say, lenny's best at this,
Jason's best at Jen, and We each take 15 or 17. Dude, no need for AI there, is there? Agreed.
No need for AI today because our.
Why is really high.
Yeah, and we're going to. And we're great. And we know that the three of us are. We're
different. The three of us are really different. It's going to crush. And we don't need any.
Maybe one of us will take our emails and run it through Claude real quick just to make it
better. Right? Or, or what I do is I do it for more research. Like I write the world's best email
and then I say, claude, how could I make this better? Do a little research, it will still be
better.
So that's an AI boost Jen should be doing. I love Jen, but she should be, she should at least be
making it better. But for our 45, 50, 50 best ones, we don't need it. What if it's 5,000? Her
approach just doesn't work. So yes, a lot of the stuff we're talking about lends itself to higher
volume sales, but as everyone gets bigger, it's all higher volume. There's just so much
volume as you scale. Right?
So yes, if you're tiny and you have three prospects and you're just getting into Y
Combinator, maybe you don't need these tools. But we graduate out of that more quickly.
And the bespoke thing for Jen, I think will work for high dollar value enterprise, but is
outside of that. I don't know, man, It's. You just can't touch enough people. Humans can't
touch enough people. And humans don't want to do the work. They don't want to talk to the
mediocre leads. They literally.
I'll tell you an ex, like, when I was in London, I wanted to buy a $10,000 product, okay? And
I'm literally in London and we're doing Sask. I don't have any time. Right. And I get confused
with the time zones. Lenny. I don't know if you do. I don't even know what time it is in the
Bay Area. So I just email this rap. It's in the air. I'm like, just send me the contract. I want to
Buy it. But I have two questions. I have two questions I want answered.
And I told him these two questions and they weren't even about price. Took him three days
to get back to me and he introduced me to someone else on his team. It wasn't worth his
time. Ten grand wasn't enough because there's not enough commission for him. Right. So
introduced someone else to me and the other guy said, I can't answer your questions unless
you'll get on the phone. And I said, I'm in London, I'm traveling, if you will. Ordinarily I
would have ended this, but I'm, I'm.
It's a journey. I'm like, if you answer my two questions, I will buy your product for 10K. Is
like, I need to get on the phone. Like, AI is better than that. This is not Jen's in the

whiteboards thing of doing it. So it will, at least it will fill. Even if Jen's process is right, AI
can fill all the gaps. What about all the sponsors, the leads? We didn't follow up with that.
We got a 70% response rate. Right.
I mean the gens are diamond in a rough and whatever the expression of the diamond,
there's not that many of them. There's not that many of them. So I, I love her and I love what
she says and I agree with 99% of it. But here's a, a related point. Most of us don't have the
hottest brands and we don't have the most elite CROs running them. So we end up settling
for not the best sales team. That's the truth. Most 99% of the best sales reps want to work
just at the hottest brands.
And the minute you're not, the minute your star fades just a little bit, they don't want to
work. They immediately want to jump to the next one. It's just, there's a lot of reasons why.
So bear in mind, 99% of, of the world cannot attract a team of gents or better. It's just
practical. Even I can't even you could, Lenny, you're so great. But even a lot of folks that
would want to go work for you if you want to hire someone, they'd be like, well, I love the.
But what do I have to do?
I've got to sell newsletter spot. Like no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I want to be CRO at lovable.
I love Lenny, but is that really going to get me there? Right?
Yeah.
So we, AI can, AI can beat those. But AI can't beat the enterprise thing. AI. I, I have no idea
how AI is going to do in person sales. I. Someone smarter than me is going to have to answer
that. But a lot of. I, you know, you have such a huge audience, Lenny, but I still think most of
your folks are in tech and, and doing tech sales. Tech is the largest segment of our economy
and growing. Right. So for the most part, these tools will work for tech sales.
Tech sales is over the zoom, over the phone, over email. We're not, we should knock on
more doors. We should do more in person. All the data I've ever collected shows everything
closes at a higher rate. If you go in person, it's just not. But in tech, it's basically as much
automation as we can get away with in gtm.
What I think might be helpful is just like, let me zoom out for a second and describe what
you've gone through here. So you used to have, I love this visual you had of the desks of the
sales folks in your office where you had inbound SDRs, you had outbound SDRs, maybe a
support person and.
Three or four AES account examples.
Okay. And three or four AES who kind of take these leads and then close the deal. And so
now just like instead of humans, there's an agent doing each of these jobs.

Yes.
You have this inbound, this outbound agent that's just sending emails, trying to find
potential leads. An inbound agent that's talking to people that are interested, trying to get
them more excited. And then is there an AE agent or I forget what.
No, we have. That's what I'm still learning. We have one full time AE plus 20% of Amelia's
time. So it's 1.2. Doing what five or six AES do.
I see.
And basically SDR BDRS.
Got it. So basically all the top of funnels is AI. And there's one human now that takes all this,
all the great stuff and just closes the deals, negotiates pricing, things like that.
Yeah, maybe 1.2 just to say it, but. But yeah, 1.2.
Yeah. So that's where I wanted to go. So Amelia. So that feels really important. Just
somebody, not necessarily full time, but just staying on top of these agents, watching the
emails, making sure quality is high, making sure they're running correctly. Talk about just
like how important that part is to the, this whole operation.
It, it's critical. It, it's critical. And you know, people are posting on LinkedIn that they want to
hire these GTM engineers or I don't think that role exists today. I, I, I, I worry when I see
these roles. I think today and listen, if we get together in 18 months, we'll, we'll update this
because the world's changing so fast, right? I think today 95% of 100, you've got to promote
someone internally. It's got to be a nerd. Someone that likes marketing and sales and is
quantum.
You know, a lot of B2C people are frankly good at this stuff because in B2C sales and
marketing are kind of the same thing, you know. But someone that's a nerd that loves to sit
in front of data for a couple hours a day and route data and manage these agents and they
come out of product, they could come out of marketing, but maybe they could come out of
revops, but they better be nerdy odds they come out of regular sales approach zero.
So I would find someone on my team that raises their hand and says, I've already done this.
Okay? I, I've already, I've already written 10 apps in Replit and I, and I, and I love Vercel and
I did this and I've already tried these ones on my own. Can I please manage these for you
and then have them be your chief orchestration officer? But it is a new skill set. It, it really is.
And, and ultimately finding someone that's going to spend an hour to two a day to manage

these agents is the new new frontier for us to figure out. They, they do not, they, they
operate autonomously but not without constant oversight and iteration. That's the
confusing part. It, and, and you just, if you just buy one of these products and disappear, you
will have zero roi. So maybe too long of an answer, but that's critical.
And I just think unfortunately you're gonna, you have to grow this resource at home today.
You have to. Even with Genie Versail, that basically grew the resource at home. Right. We're
not all for sale, but I just haven't seen it. Everyone's posting for this job, but we need
veterans. We don't have veterans yet. Right. And going back earlier, the conversation, if that
is you, you're going to be super employable next year.
You're going to have so many job offers, you're not going to know what to, you're going to
have to beat them off.
And when you think of is Amelia, would you describe her as a go to market engineer or do
you, is that a different role?
I would say now, yeah. Officer. Yeah.
Okay.
But she knows the products. Colt Cold. She knows how the all the quirks work, how all the
agents work. And here's a this is, this is a, a complicated issue, but an interesting one if
you're running multiple agents, okay, someone's got a segment which of the base the agents
are working with or they're going to have tons of conflict. You need someone smart enough
and any like really nerdy demand gen marketer that loves data can do this.
But you've got to segment your base otherwise it just becomes a mess. There are no people
on X and the Internet. Talk about these master agents that can manage agents that can
manage agents. We're not there yet. Okay, maybe like I'm excited for it, but we're not there
yet. So just even figuring out how to segment your base so you can do inbound, retargeting,
remarketing new marketing like so so that, that is complicated. But most badass marketers
can't understand that.
They're already doing a B testing segmenting their bases. This is not new, is it? No, no. Yeah,
but turning it on with zero work is a F like it's just no chance.
This episode is brought to you by Datadog, now home to epo, the leading experimentation
and feature flagging platform. Product managers at the world's best companies use datadog,
the same platform their engineers rely on every day to connect product insights to product
issues like bugs, UX friction and business impact. It starts with product analytics where PMs
can watch replays, review funnels, dive into retention and explore their growth metrics.

Where other tools stop, datadog goes even further. It helps you actually diagnose the impact
of funnel drop offs and bugs and UX friction. Once you know where to focus, experiments
prove what works. I saw this firsthand when I was at Airbnb, where our experimentation
platform was critical for analyzing what worked and where things went wrong. And the
same team that built experimentation at Airbnb built epo. Datadog then lets you go beyond
the numbers with session replay.
Watch exactly how users interact with heat maps and scroll maps to truly understand their
behavior. And all of this is powered by feature flags that are tied to real time data so that
you can roll out safely, target precisely and learn continuously. Datadog is more than
engineering metrics metrics. It's where great product teams learn faster, fix smarter and
ship with confidence.
Request a demo@datadoghq.com Lenny that's datadoghq.com Lenny I'm looking back at
some notes I took as you were talking of just like advice for each Function almost of how to
be successful in this future that you're seeing. So I'll try to summarize briefly. So your advice
for salespeople is use the agents, build one yourself, try to train it, help it run, run alongside
you so that you understand these tools and be the person within the sales organ.
That's for ma, for leadership. I advise that for leaders. I don't know that if your average SDR
or junior salesperson is going to get budget for their own agent, if they do run with it. The
problem Lenny is that all these agents that work today, they have forward deployed
engineers, they have training. So they're all like 50 grand and up. 50 Grand? 80 Grand. I
mean people pay more, don't get me wrong.
But kind of the entry level point for these is sort of like 50 grand plus 25k for the FD or 75
like they want even clay I think starts at 100k a year. So if you're a bigger organization that's
cheaper than a human. Right. It's a tall but. But There are no $99 a month products which
has a lot of it. They're trying and I think it's going to come. They don't auto train yet
particularly well and so I don't know that junior folks are going to have access to 100k
budget unfortunately. Right.
So that advice is for the VPs, the folks that are worried. A lot of them are worried that I'm
obsolete. Right. That I'm obsolete, that I'm not going to get that role at Vercel or OpenAI. So
keep, keep going. My. The advice for the junior folks is to embrace it. You, if you whatever
tools your organization is using, become the best person at working with that agent and you
will automatically get more efficient. Yeah.
Is it annoying that that you walk into work and the agent set up four calls for you and maybe
you only wanted to do two of them. Embrace it. Embrace it because you'll be twice as
productive. Right. I was literally talking yesterday. There's a company I'm on the board of
called owner.com which is kind of like AI for restaurants are crossing 100 million in
revenue, going really quickly. It's got a hundred folks on the sales team. Kyle does with AI.

He's trying.
He's targeting 3 to 5 million in revenue per rep. 3 to 5 million. Honestly if this was three or
four years ago for a similar company it would be 3 to 500K. That's an order of magnitude
more efficiency. Still a hundred reps. Right. A hundred reps, he's going to need more to hit
the number for next year, but 3 to 5 million per rep. So if you're that guy that can work with
those tools, you become more valuable.
But if you fight it, if you don't want to do that extra meeting, if you fight it, there's a. There's
a. There's a tool. Another tool we use for RevOps, there's two we use. One's called
Momentum, one's called attention. They're both great. They're very similar. And what it
does is every single thing a human does is automatically tracked in your CRM instantly.
Every comm, real time. There have been tools that have done some of this before, but
literally everything.
And when we rolled it out and it happened with a few other folks, I know one of the folks on
that old team quit that day. Quit the day we rolled out the. The AI Rev ops. You know why?
He hadn't done anything in 30 days. The gig was up.
Oh, wow.
Every day he would show up to our standup, and he said, yeah, I'm doing outbound, and I'm
really working on that deal with Vercel, and nothing would close. And then we said, oh,
we're. We're. He quit that day. So my point is, he didn't lean into it. Right. Lean into it. Now
you're going to have full, total transparency on your day. You know, granola is a, you know,
a side example for everything. But. But AI is going to track everything you do.
Like, if you want to fight it, you want to fight the future, good luck to you. But embrace it,
and you will. You will leap ahead of your peers that aren't embracing this. Embrace all the
transparency, all the leads, all the work it makes you do. Because you can't close 10 times as
much doing the same amount of work, can you?
Nope.
We do more work. With AI, I'm working the hardest I've ever worked. That's with all these
agents and all the output they create. And Amelia does a lot of it, but even I am working the
hardest. But. But it. But it's better. But it's not less work. It's the. It's more work. The agents
are so productive. You have to keep up. So I. So sorry to interrupt. For the. For the. For the
managers, buy an agent, deploy it yourself. Don't have someone else do it.
Do everything from training to ingestion to orchestration. Those terms will be less scary to
you. For the junior folks, be the guy, the gal, the person that Loves these tools. And that is
the first person to embrace whatever it is, don't fight it.

Awesome. Okay. For founders in startups, what I'm hearing is the be that for deployed
engineer, have that person, that sales engineer that's sitting there helping companies. This
is basically an opportunity to compete with bigger players where you're actually there
helping them set things up. Like all the companies you mentioned, none of them are big
companies, they're all startups, which is really interesting.
It is true. I will say it is. Working with Salesforce the way we are, it's the way. I haven't
worked with Salesforce since it was the first product I bought, I mean, 20 years ago. Dude,
when I bought Salesforce 20 years ago, I got. Everything was hands on. I bought two seats. I
remember back in the day talking to my rep, I'm like, don't talk to me. You don't have time.
You work at Salesforce. I'm buying two seats. It's like, no, no, no, this is what we do. I'm here
for you.
I'm gonna help you get your app on the app exchange. I'm gonna do all of it. And that went
away. It's kind of back. Right. And Mark's got 2,000 folks doing this at Salesforce now. So we
have a forward deployed engineer. I'm not even sure it makes economic sense. And maybe
in two years someone like you or I would not get an fd. But, but, but the big companies are
figuring it out. But yes, pick a vendor that will make you a success with, with an fde. Right.
And, and people throw this term out, but again, it's, it's just someone that's going to make
sure you get trained and onboarded with your product for real. But yeah, so start. Startups
have a motivation to do this in a way that maybe some of the incumbents really are still
figuring out. Right.
Which is a big opportunity for startups to actually do this. And, and this actually resonates
very closely to what Jen suggested for startups, which is sell services initially. Just like do
work for them, solve their problem, not with software. To get things started, to grow that
into a massive contract with them. That is software.
You mean? The mean landed expand. Start with a smaller deal and grow it.
Start. No, like, like afford like a person sitting there doing this work with them. Essentially
what you're describing, don't just like, we have software, go try using it. It's like we will
have someone on our team helping you figure this out. And, and maybe there's not Even
software yet to do all these things. But we'll have them do it for you. And then the software
will take on more and more of that work over time.
I think that's always been great advice. And startups have always been great at this. Like in
the early days you, the CEO does it is doing support. The CEO's onboarding you. I think
what's different today is the agent will fail without training and onboarding this product. It
will fail like it will never, it will never work. So it becomes an imperative if you want to win
like you need. This term has been bandied about too much. But you need a team of humans.

We can call them forward deployed engineers that make 100% sure that when the agent is
turned on, it's awesome. That's your job as a founder. Make sure it's awesome. Versus in the
old days, even when I built one of the first E Signature services, it was so easy to use. We'd
have some customers, take them two years to go live. Big customers. That's just not okay in
the age of AI, right?
Yeah. And these forge deploy engineers, is that just another name for sales engineer or is
that a different sort of background?
It can be. And I think all this nomenclature is confusing, man. All this orchestration and
ingestion. I think we're, we're confused. Like Palantir is obviously the single most successful
public B2B company at the moment, right? Maybe. Maybe databricks and a few others will
beat them in the next wave of IPOs. But their idea for forward deployed engineers is similar.
But these are nine figure deals. Most of us aren't doing hundred million dollar deals.
So the idea that you'll have Gary Tan and an army of folks out in the office for six months
getting the software to work, that, that sort of inspires the idea. But it's really. Sure it could
be a sales engineer or solution architect. But the difference is the SES that a lot of us worked
with in the days were resources. And often like there was also in a classic resource of like
eight sales reps to one se.
So the eight reps would, there'd be a POD and one SE would be responsible and you'd kind
of have to fight to get Jason or Lenny's time to help the eight reps. This is inverted. The FDA
is number one job is to make the customer a success. Okay. I was literally the other day
doing a presentation in a leader that closed a $3 million deal. The FD did it all himself. Sales
wasn't even involved.
In the deal, they went on site, they got the deployment going, they tuned it, everything all
sales did was manage it through the procurement process. This okay, that's pretty different
than a guy answering some questions for the humans, right? So it is a combination of
customer success and SE or whatever. But it is, it is really. I mean frankly it's just being a
classic consultant that gets the product done on day one. On day one. That's the difference is
that when you go live, it works.
When you go live it works. That's that. And it's a fancy name for a bunch of folks on your
team that when it goes live the AI agent actually works. So you have a hundred percent
success rate instead of like the 5% rate of 2024. So those people, but they do need to be tech
technical. I don't know if they need to be engineers. It can really vary based on, you know, I
love it when they're kind of like mediocre engineers that are like in love with the product.
That's my favorite type of fd.
Like they're on. They don't really want to code much anymore but they did code and they

like just love your product. But I don't think it can be someone with no product chops. But
all different folks can work but they've, they've got to know the product hold. But yeah, I
would startups like, I mean the term is thrown around. You need four folks that will just
make sure that on go live the product works, your agentic product works. That's what you
need.
I think it might be useful to close out this conversation is to kind of go through what are the
things that are changing. Like maybe a handful of things that, that are changed that are now
going to be different in the world of sales go to market and what are a few things that are
just going to stay the same.
Yeah, let's go through it. Obviously support is the first one to have changed. It's obviously
permanently changed with AI, right. Whatever vendor you look at, 50 to 80% of support is
done by AI. And we don't always think about support as GTM, but it is, it's the start of a
customer journey. It's very important to the customer journey. So, so if you're skeptical, go
look at, you know, support has changed permanently so that that trains left the station.
Really as we record this, not much has changed in sales. I mean I do think the stuff we've
talked about is the bleeding edge. I do think the classic cadence based SDR running
campaigns through A tool, him or herself will be mostly extinct with 12 months. There is no
reason AI can't do a better job than that role. The classic qualifier qualifying inbound leads
which is a crappy experience for customers should be similarly extinct within 12. Mostly
extinct in 12 months.
The rest we're going to wait and see. I think what we do know for reps, for sales reps,
everyone wants to be even more efficient in the next 12 months. There's a lot of reasons
people want to be able again. At the bottom end it's, it's, it's cost, it's profitability pressures.
At the high end it's cultural. We just don't want 200 reps running around vercel or repl that
don't know what the product does. Everyone just the. The company owner.
3 To 5 million per rep is a lot different than 3 to 500,000. So you have to adjust as a rep, you
still, there's still. Every AI leader can't hire enough reps like we talked about. But you're
going to have to adjust to being geometrically, if not exponentially more productive with
help from AI. So you have to embrace these tools for real. And everyone, a lot of folks, a lot
of old school GTM leaders are like, you know, AI isn't going to hurt sales reps.
It's just going to make them give them superpowers, the best ones. Yes. The mediocre are
just going to be like more mediocre.
Right.
So I think the AE is. We will always have salespeople. But being a people person is not
enough anymore. You know how you can tell a mediocre salesperson, Lenny? You ask them

what they're really good at. I'm a people person, Lenny. You know how you can, you know,
you know how you, you know how good I am, Lenny. I'm on text with 10 of my best
customers. I'm a people person. What are the toughest technical objections you have at your
product? What, What?
They don't, they don't know, but they're a people person. You know this is like Golf 3.0. It
just. It's not enough. Like it's, it's insufficient. So people, people, people are becoming
obsolete in sales. Field sales. No idea how AI is going to impact that if you're out in the field.
I mean, you know the enterprise leaders are hiring more field salespeople than ever.
Salesforce is hiring more than ever. And knocking on doors still works, man. So don't know
the answers there.
But the office worker and the work from home worker AI is going to take as much of your
job or make you as much better as it can and you got to embrace it. So that's, I would say
from support to knocking on doors, you know, we're going to go from 80% to 0%.
What about phone calls?
You know, it's a great question and we should have hit it. Obviously there's, there's plenty of
robocall and regulatory issues around it. Certainly a lot of startups are breaking the rules
anyway. I would say this, listen, there are, there's phone calls and there's even sms. There's
limits to how much SMS you can automate. Right. A lot of old school businesses don't even
check emails, right? I mean, you're working in the shop floor. So those are unanswered
questions.
People are breaking the rules. OpenAI still breaks the rules. Right now it's licensing Disney
content. It used to just borrow Disney content. We will see. So I don't, I don't know the
answers to that. I think in, in Europe it'll certainly be much slower than in the us but
startups are going to push the limits. They're going to push the limits on what we can do
with AI calls, AI enhanced, whether a human's kind of on the line. But AI is doing all the
work. Maybe that's, maybe that's legal, right?
Getting more consent for SMS than we typically get. So to think that the typical barriers to
robocalling and SMS is going to. That startups aren't going to bend the rules in the age of AI,
I'm dubious, but it's a good question. It's harder to do. The one thing I will add is, and it's a
good objection to all of this and I'd love to get Jen's thoughts too. But if you talk to the
startups, you'd invest in Lenny for fewer of them are good at outbound phone calls than
you'd think. Right.
We had many of the heads of revenue at Rippling Speak at Saster. The old CRO worked on
my team and others. They were late to develop Cold Calling because we never did it back in
the day. The CRO was on my team so we had to bring in someone that had worked with Sam
Blonde at Brecht who had done it. It is a real art to pick up the phone and close business. It

is a specialized skill and so if, if that's your specialized skill and there's no way for AI to
benefit, so be it.
But I don't think for most tech calls that that is as impactful as we pretend it is. I don't think
most of the startups you and I work with and most of the folks listen to this, do not close the
majority of their revenue with cold, human cold calls. It's. It is a, it is a craft that works but
man it, you gotta be good at it.
Yeah. This line somewhere that if you can close on a text message, AI can close it.
Yes, it is. I'm being facetious in the sense that people say that I think have weaker
relationships with customers. This is why AI is people have weaker relationships with their
customers than they think. Yeah. And if it's so easy to close the deal on a text message and
we've done hundreds of thousands of these and founder folks don't mind if it's an AI, if it's a
good AI, why won't it close it on the text message? Right. AI can be people. People too. It
really can't.
If you don't believe me folks, go to lennybot. Is that the URL lennybot.com lennybot.com if
you don't think AI can be people people go sp people spend hours on Lennybot, don't they?
Yeah. And the best part is you could talk to talk to lennybot with boys. There's a voice
feature that sounds exactly like me. It's unbelievable.
Yeah. So and. And one a meta reason to go use lennybot. Go in with a learning. A learning
mind. Don't go in biased. You will find that AI can be people people people spend hours our
best. Who are our best therapists today as we record this chat GPT is our best. Best
therapist on planet Earth. It's a people person. I mean it sounds silly but if, if that is your
best defense in sales that you're a people person. You, you're the. The sands are. The sands
are sinking beneath you right now. It's.
It's not enough of a skill. It's. People person is great. When people buy enterprise software
that's going to take two years to roll out and they have no idea how it works. And it's a hope
and a prayer when you expect the agent to work during the pilot before the big check
comes, people person is insufficient. Terrific talk. Tell me the person that's going to launch
my agent, train it and get into production for me before I even pay you. You know, it is. This
is the dream.
When this is maybe this is one of the biggest changes of all. When I talked with Mark Ben off
And Salesforce is the biggest, right? It's 44 billion. It's the biggest ship to to turn right. He's
like the number one thing I envy in Paler 1 is their high deal sizes. He made that joke in all
the media and all the press. But the other thing is I wish he said I wish I could, I can't today. I
wish every Salesforce customer now could go live before they pay.

That is so different from how we've been trained in many ways to almost rip off the
customer to get them to buy the product first, try to avoid a pilot, then have the smallest
pilot we can then roll it out over years to different people. AI has upped the bar in terms of
what customers expect. And that's why the best ones are blowing up because the ROI is so
high. And so you've got to deliver the ROI before the document is e signed today that will.
People that haven't fully embrace that are at public companies growing 8%. They're still
trying to play games.
What are some other things that you think are going to change that people may not be
thinking about that's going to change the way we do sales.
In the next couple years net net, we're going to need more sales and go to market
professionals than ever. Because the winners are growing so quickly that even if they're
more efficient, they will need more human beings than ever. We'd have to put together a
spreadsheet to see the crossover point. Obviously many folks are shrinking headcount.
Microsoft's already said they're past peak employee. They'll never going to be bigger. We're
seeing this all across the companies we work with.
They don't want to be. They want to be as lean as they can. But AI is such a huge part of our
economy already, right. And it's such a force of nature. And everyone is. Everyone
eventually goes enterprise. Everyone eventually has a sales team. Everyone eventually does
it. It's happening faster. You know, 11 labs, 50% of their sales is through enterprise now.
Right. I mean, I don't know everybody. The fact that Vercel just added Janine means they're
going more enterprise by definition. Right?
I think Replit just added a sales team a couple months ago for real. And now they've added
another CRO. So they got to 100 and something million with no traditional sales team. But at
a billion it's going to be flooded with salespeople. So if you get great at this stuff, if you go
buy an agent today when you listen to this and Deploy it yourself and do the hard work and
train it and ingest it and iterate it every day and get ahead of it and then get two agents, then
three and then four.
You may become more valuable, have a better experience in GTM and I believe, I hope
actually be better paid. Like I've talked about that we should have $250,000 a year SDRs.
But they'd be like at Vercel they'd be managing 10 agents, not 10 people. Then they're
worth 250 grand instead of 80 grand or 90 grand. It's, it's not that much, is it? So there is a
great world coming. These are the best of times, aren't they Lenny? For product and
business, right? Just it's not evenly distributed.
So you want to be, you want to have, if you have those skills. Even though we're not going to
need these SDRs and even though we're not going to need BDRs, even though we can get rid
of half of AES, there is so the amount of revenue and growth in AI leaders is so phenomenal.

Right? Not just at the startups, at the Google Clouds, at everywhere. Azure, they're hiring so
many humans that Net net. It's a positive for the profession but not for the way we've done
it in the past. You're at risk.
That is really interesting that we're still hiring. And this is what I've seen too. Just like
everyone's hiring salespeople go to market people. Do you think there's going to be this
peak in the next couple of years of just okay, now that AI is doing more and more of this or
is it just hard to predict because who knows how big AI gets, how big these companies get.
I mean it is over a trillion dollars. I don't see any reason. And it's accelerating the amount. AI
is increasing the amount. Gartner says next year will be the fastest acceleration of money
deployed into IT and software in a decade. It's re accelerated. Can that last forever? No.
Eventually we consume 100% of the global GDP. There's no money left to bite. So like there
are some, some limits. But I, I think for. I don't think you and I and anyone, any of the
millions of people that follow you.
I don't think we got to think too much more than three to four years out here. It's too much.
There's too much change. If you, if you become a master of the universe in AI, you will be
hyper employable the next two to Three years. And if you stay with a learner's mind, that
will just compound. And so you will, you will have a job that I think is far more interesting,
even if more tiring than, than, than we used to have.
But the days of working 20 hours a week and kind of phoning it in and getting a few deals,
you know, I think those are forever behind that. That was a great time even you had a little
bit of that. You're, I think you're working harder than you used to, aren't you?
I am, I am.
I mean the classic Lenny Vibe at 100,000 subscribers was kind of leave me alone. I take a lot
of vacations, I do some good work. I mean it's still part of your vibe, but I think you're
working harder.
I'm working incredibly hard. The original idea was create this like, like, like chill newsletter
Life. I'm just gonna write a newsletter once a week. Life's gonna be good. And it was just, it's
just hard to pass up on really cool opportunities and, and do more, help it grow bigger. Like,
it's just, I couldn't resist. So yeah, I'm working.
And that should be all of us though. Like we should.
You should be.
If you're not feeling what you said or even a version of what I said, then, then you're not,
you're not living, you're not on the right, you're not living the AI dream today. It is more

work. It should be tired. It should be like if nothing, even if it's better in some ways it is just
more work. But, but this is the most exciting time of our lifetimes to be in software. I mean,
good God, I'm like, I can't even code Letty and I've built 12 apps on rep in the last 150 days.
Used by a million, million times. I've been waiting 10 years for some of these folks to build
some of these apps. I just did it myself, right? I literally, just when I was in London, I built a
whole app where you can sell, you can practice selling Harvey cursor Replit and ChatGPT
Enterprise and it works like we couldn't. This wasn't even possible at the start of the year,
was it?
These are magical times and we, the fact that we can, we can run an eight figure business
with three people and 20 agents, it's like, you know, get, get excited or like go join one of
these really slow growing beautiful like I. My advice is pick one of two paths today. Either be
working harder, like Even you and I are right. We don't have to. Or honestly, I will say the
truth is there were a thousand unicorns born in 2021. Right. 800 Of them are growing
pretty slowly.
Will never IPO may not have an exit, but they're okay with 8% or 15% growth. If you don't
want to be on the journey we talked about, I'm not judging. I get it. We're humans, right? We
have families. Not all of us are obsessed. I think I'm kind of obsessed. I think you've become
more obsessed. If that's not you, join something more slow growing. They still need people.
Not as many. They still need people. But I would pick. I would pick a lane for next year.
Don't pretend that there's this middle path going to start because it don't exist in gtm and I
don't think it exists in product or engineering either.
I love just how excited you are about this. Just like you could tell on Twitter just how fun
this is for you, just learning and sharing. And I love that you're sharing it. But I think it's just
a symptom of you're just so excited about what's happening and what you're learning, and
it's just like, you can't help but share it. I'm in the same way. I'm just like, oh, shit. I just vibe
go to this really cool thing. I got a tweet about it.
It's just. It is just magical that our ability to build things that we couldn't build before or
build in ways and paces, it's just. And it's accelerating. It's so. I mean, we could talk about it
forever. But even for me, for, like, I just picked Rep. I picked replit because Twitter told me
to. I could have picked another tool. Like, I'm not an investor and I'm not. I'm not even
biased, but I'm in the top 1%.
Just to double down. What you said you're top 1% user of Replit?
Yeah. Wow. Yeah. So it really didn't work well when I started about 170 days ago. Then a V2
came out and it got better. The hallucinations went away. And then this is just like, you got
to get excited about. Folks may not know this and other tools. When V3 came out, I don't

know, 45 days ago. Now it has agents talking to agents. So what happens is when you. When
you and I again, I can't really code. So when I have an issue And I'm trying to figure out how
to do something.
The agent calls in an architect or another agent and they debate and argue with it and they
come up with the right answer. The first time this happened, I just fell out of my chair. It's
just so. Not only is it magical, I mean, great, you can do a prompt and build a crappy app that
doesn't work. Now like 150 days later, you have agents debating how to build better code
with each other and you don't even need to know how to code.
I mean this is the greatest, the only greater time is going to be next year, right? I've been
waiting. I've been waiting, right? And you know, and just the things that you can build today
and the other, I mean, you know this, but other folks, I mean, that's me building without
being able to code the other Captain Obvious thing, you know, if you're building any. Why
are folks so productive on all these tools? I mean every bit of open source software in the
world is in these tools.
If you want to build something that's been built before, it's so easy. The novel stuff's really
hard, right? It's not any easier, but man, it's just, these are, these are great. And so, and
maybe, maybe and so for gtm, for sales, it's, it's, it's a couple beats behind and there's
probably a bunch of reasons for it. Some of it is, I think ironically is just where founders are
interested. So marketing is behind sales for AI. Like the AI SGR has exploded. I don't really
know why.
I invested in a couple of pre AI tools. I invested in Salesloft, which was sold for two and a
half billion. Is like the last deal, the 2020 ones, like the seed investment. No one wanted to
be in that category. Now everyone in the world wants to build an aisgr, a rcrm. But
marketing is slower just because people don't really want to build the cursor for marketing.
People say they do, but. But it's just not. But it, it will get there, but the innovation will just
accelerate.
It's just going to accelerate. So, so don't be a skeptic on this stuff. Like if you're not as excited
as me, then here's my last bit of advice on this for folks. If you're not, if you don't feel what I
feel, here's my advice. Over the holidays, when you have a quiet moment when you're
having your mold wine or your hot chocolate or whatever, go fire up your browser, do it in
incognito. Go to your app and do everything with a fresh Gmail address. Try support. See
how your support is.
Try to contact sales. Sign up for the newsletter. Do everything. Try your product. If you do
this quietly, your heart. You're going to cry about some of the things you've seen. You're
going to cry how bad you're supported. You're going to cry how long it takes sales to get
back to you. You're going to cry about a couple things. Pick the thing that makes you cry the
most over your mulled wine and go buy that agent and fix it. And. And then you will have

the passion that we have. This.
I always cancel people to do this. It just wasn't as actionable before AI but so many f. You
just get lost. You forget about what these things. You forget about the onboarding workflow
and you forget about support and you forget how bad contact me. And you're so lost in the
strategy. So you got it once a year, ideally once a quarter. Just do this incognito mode test.
And even for Lenny's newsletter, I bet we can find some part you forgot to touch.
Nope.
No. You just gonna happen.
I'm just.
I'm just joking. You're like, oh, my God, I can't believe I didn't touch that. Since I launched
the substack, it doesn't even go to the right. That place gets a 404.
I'm gonna do this over the holidays. And I love that.
This.
Like, usually the advice would have been, okay, email your product manager and tell them
you found all these bugs. What you're saying here is no, find an agent to take care of this in
the future. Like make this a much better experience for everyone. Oh, always.
Yeah. Yeah. And if it's the one that makes you cry, it may motivate you to do it.
Yeah. And you don't. It's not like you have to publish it to production. It's not like you have
to have your, you know, CEO approve this thing. It's just like show them what you might be
able to do. Here's what I did over the weekend. Maybe we should explore doing this thing
with our site.
Yeah. The job's just my job.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, man. Jason, I feel like I could chat with you for hours, but I think it's. This is a good point
to wrap things up. Is there anything that you wanted to share or is there anything you want
to leave listeners with?
One last thing maybe that comes up that I'VE learned that are on people's minds and we can

break is a lot of folks are concerned, hey, this will impact people's jobs. What do I do? Like,
okay, I want, I did what you said I did the incognito mode. I'm going to bring in this, this
agent, this sales agent, or this support agent. I've tried, I've even did it, but I'm worried I'm
going to get pushed back and people are going to lose their jobs.
Um, I don't, I, I don't have the perfect answer to this one, but I think be honest about it. Be,
be honest that for the best people, it will make them more productive. For the best people
will be even fun. For the best people, they will be better at their job. And if it is a threat to
some of the folks on the team, the future is coming anyway. We might as well embrace it. So
it's just when I hear, I, I, I wouldn't, I would be positive about it.
I would explain it helps the best people, but I don't think dancing around it is the right
answer in your organization. It will result in change. And if some jobs change from one role
or the other, that's life in the age of AI. Don't hide it. I don't think it helps.
I love that in your case and in Gene's case at Vercel, it's not like you let anyone go. In your
case, the SDRs quit and in her case, she moved them from, I believe, from inbound to
outbound or outbounds inbound. She just kind of reshuffled them to do, to have higher
impact somewhere else.
I think that's an important, a really important point. This is another thing that I think the
media creates too much drama on. I don't think AI is not, I mean, AI has led to some layoffs,
but even though most of the ones we read, it's just a justification to do layoffs, it's just, it's
just a reason to blame it on it. What's a much bigger issue is that people just won't be
backfilled with humans. We will use AI to backfill. That's what we did, right? We didn't fire.
I've never fired anyone my whole career other than for inappropriate conduct a few times.
Right? That's that you fired today for that stuff. But pretty much I've never fired anyone that
didn't do something inappropriate. They just, when they go, this time we just said now it's
the agents. Right? And so That's a much bigger force of nature than some random layoffs
which probably aren't really due to AI. Right. It's probably not because you brought in 20
agents in 2025.
It's probably because you just want to downsize anyway and this is the excuse. So it's not.
It's not. It's probably less a threat to you than you think, AI. But it, what it does mean is if
you're not, don't want to embrace it. Lenny, Maybe don't leave your current job. Yeah,
maybe don't leave your current job.
Because the new place might not be hiring for this role.
Yeah, I have a God, I have. I have a sales exec who I love. I worked, I'd known for many years
and he went from 100k job, then almost an 800k job, then down to a 200k job, then left that
one because he didn't like it. And now he can't get a job at all. He's back in school. So maybe

stay. We all maybe stay. No shame in staying, is there?
Yeah, I like that. Well, with that, Jason, we have reached our very exciting lightning round.
This is your second time going through a lightning round. So I'll make it. I'll make it quick.
First question, what are a couple books you often find yourself recommending to other
people?
I was recently asked to write a forward for a book from one one of the revenue leaders I
have the most respect for in the world. I read a little bit of it. I couldn't do it because as good
as it was, it was dated, it wasn't current enough in AI. And there's just. I don't know what we
said at this. It might have been before we started the pod. The plays all work, but the
playbooks don't really work as well. So.
So many of these GTM books are playbooks, especially folks selling courses and stuff, but
they're playbooks. Run from the playbooks, embrace the plays. And so read all these books,
go to market and sells books and take, take great items from them, which was always the
goal from a book, right. Pick three, two or three things out of it. But I'm, I think I'm waiting
for the next level of books and GTM in 2026 because everything I've read, it's, it's just too
backwards looking.
So just be a skeptic, Grab the plays, but don't adopt the playbook.
I just had the head of growth from lovable Elena Vernon on the podcast. She had the same
advice that all these playbooks that she's used over the last 20 years in growth just don't
work anymore at AI companies. Next question. Do you have a favorite recent movie or TV
show that you have really enjoyed?
What's this one called? What's it called? Pluribus. Is that what it's called?
Plus yeah.
Watching that, it's. And this is so it's a good show. This is what I realized is why you should
be excited about AI and GTM is Pluribus. Because Plur and Pluribus, there's like a hive mind,
right? We're all connect. All the people except 11 people or 13 people. They're all connected.
People don't get this. This is why right now, the whole point when we're doing this, maybe.
Maybe we'll do a third one if I'm lucky. The whole point is just get your AI agents to be
almost as good as humans.
But working 247 and at scale, that's pretty damn good. If it can do ten or a hundred times
more work 247 as pretty good as your human, that's a resource you don't even have today.
It's not that complicated. When AI really is the hive mind, when it can share all of the data
across all of your agents and knows everything that happens, then humans are at risk in
gtm. They're going to be so much better when they're the hive mind. Right now, our hive.

And there's a bit of a renaissance for Salesforce as a CRM. There's a bunch of reasons. Even
though it's old, right. It's founded in the 90s. It has become the hub for these AIGTM agents
they all plug into. So Salesforce has become the database for all these. So that's a little hint of
the Pluribus hive mind. But when all these agents can talk with each other for.
For real and share all their GTM data and all the customer data and everything on the one
next time we do it, the 3.8 million people that read Lenny's and all the agents can share data
together. No human. That. That's. I don't mean to turn. Turn Pluribus into an AIGTM show,
but there's my connection. But. But it's pretty good, right?
I get it. I get it. Oh man. That shows. So good. I feel like every episode I get these pushes from
Apple tv. Like there's a new episode of Playerbus. I'm like, I can't wait to go watch that. They
just leave the. Each Episode ends and like, oh, I can't wait to see what happens next. Okay, is
there a favorite product you've recently discovered that you really love? Like an app or a
gadget or clothing?
Maybe not in the last two weeks. I'll just give a small one. Just. Just for GTM1 there is
because everyone's about Sora this and all of this and video and I love it. I get it. But there is
an app called Reeve. It used to be Revart. It's for imaging. And it is. The folks that build it
built their own image LLMs on their own. And the reason I bring this up, I use it every single
day is because it can do a lot of cool things with a prompt. Right.
But if you want to do cool stuff for marketing, if you want to create a great image, I have a
CMMO buying my product doing this. I don't know a tool that is better for that kind of stuff.
That stuff that we used to torture. We used to fire up canva and try to create things. Or even
worse, wait four days for someone to do it for you. I just. You. This is one of my cheat sheets.
I have a couple tool tools that I use that people don't get. But now it's app.revai.
It changed its name, but it's just a simple prompt. Go to it. Type in whatever image you want
to make. And for a lot of the boring B2B stuff we like to do, I find it's the best.
And it's rv.com.
Yeah, I'm looking at it right now.
Copy bar. Delivering Matcha through a quite moss garden app.
Re.com.
Yeah, sweet.
Oh, oh, you're making the image you said.

I'm just like. They're giving me examples here on the website here.
Yeah.
This is great. And you're saying this is better than like nano banana and all these other.
For this use case and you and I, we just images. I want to do a thumbnail. I want an image
for my article. I want it. I just did. I just. My niche thing, content. I just want to do. I've got to
do it. I just don't think there's anything better for. For this use case. So I use it two or three
times a day and I use all this stuff. Stuff.
Okay. The alpha. More alpha to. To share with the audience. Okay. Two more questions. Do
you have a favorite life motto that you often find yourself coming back to in work or in life
that you often maybe even share with other people?
I'll just tell you one in the weird time we're at, this is probably your best startup. Just talking
yesterday with a friend of mine, startup just raised 20 million from a top 2 or 3 VC founder
just quit the next day. Just on the call the other day yesterday, CEO of a company at 250
million. Just, just, just, just quit. No success or know anyone to join a, a hot AI startup?
Maybe, maybe, maybe most of the time there are, there are times and places to just quit
when you have customers, when you have a million or 2 million or 5 or 10 million in
revenue. But we, we often think it's easier to get back to get back to that 10 million of
revenue to get back to a hundred happy customers or 200.
It might seem easier to quit in the age of AI, but I'd rather take those 500 happy customers,
build that badass AI product and sell it to 500 happy customers and go have to find them
from scratch. Go have to find that 10 or 20 million. So that's, I literally had a third
conversation with the founder just crossing a hundred million that wanted to leave and do a
robotic startup after 10 years. I'm like, I get it man.
But like this is, you know, you have nine figures of equity in this company, maybe go to the
next level. So there's so much going on, they're decelerating, accelerating. I just usually
think the best startup as f for founders, not, not necessarily for everybody else, is the one
you're already working at. And if you're not happy, turn that into your a hot AI startup. It's
not, here's the thing, it's not too late, Lenny. Sometimes it feels like it's too late on social
media.
Maybe it's too late to build the next ChatGPT on the cheap, okay? But for most stuff, it's not
too late. It's still so early. We don't even have great AI marketing tools. We're really early on
these AI SDRs. The markets have not hardened. The LLMs are getting so much better. Dude,
if you want it, it's not too late. So the best startup you're ever going to have probably is the

one you're working at today day. Don't quit. Don't quit if you have happy customers. Maybe
that's how.
Don't quit if you have happy customers. They'll buy more from you.
I love advice like that. That's empowering and optimistic and, and de stresses people I think
in a lot of ways. So that is great. Final question, how many, so how many sasters have you
Done at this point. Like, how many years of saster have there been?
Good God. We've done the first big of. We did some meetups. You know that, right? And then
we did the first bigger one in 2015. So 2016. We did. We did take a break in 2020 of what
we did in 2021. We're the only event in the Bay Area in 2021. So is that 12 of them? 12
Years. It's a long time, man.
And then how many talks have there been across those, would you say, total?
And. And then we've done seven in Europe, so 12 and 12 in the US.
And seven in Europe, so about 20. Okay, 20 events.
20 Bigger events. Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't know. Like the annual one, probably, if you count the smaller ones. 300. So that
3,000. 4,000 Over the years.
So then here's the question. Is there a talk that you think is the one that you like? What's
your favorite talk across all those events? Is the one you're like, oh, this one really stood out.
This is one I always share with people. One that you think people might. You'd want people
to check out if they were to check out one talk across all sester.
It's interesting. It's like a lot of things in B2B. Everything was pretty much the same for 10
years, and then all of a sudden, everything's out of date. Right. If you wanted to watch an
older one, not that old, but old in Internet AI time that I think will change the way you think,
Watch the one I did with Ben Chestnut right after they got acquired. Because that's a
magical time. It's called Everything that breaks on the way to 1 billion. It's only got 23,000
views.
That's nothing for Lenny, but for me, that's pretty good. Okay. And it's a moment in time,
right after he sold the billion dollar company, where he talks about how the deal almost fell
apart, where he challenges almost every B2B metric we know how, you know, running a
profitable business at that scale, not really caring about CLTV and CAC or any of these

things. What really matters for customers is mailchimp. As cutting edge as it was today.
Right?
Maybe not, but that's one when I look at it, because everything. Everything's kind of the
same. We don't. We don't really get challenged in the way we think. Everyone's talking their
book, Right. You're so good at getting people to not talk their book. But. But that one, I think
is a great one. And then if people wanted to watch a GTM one, just some favorite ones, we
did this one. It's a recent one, Matt Plank, because these guys were on my team.
Matt Plank, who CEO of Rippling, did one with Sam Blonde, who was NCR of Brex. It's called
Rippling Secrets to Hyper Growth. It sounds like a commercial for Rippling, which is okay.
Right? But because Sam was. They worked together and now Sam's on the board and all.
Like, they have a fluency of two CROs who are honest and have a learner, a Lenny style
learner's mindset. This one on the. The revenue playbook from Rippling. It's. It's a. It's a 14
for. For GTM.
I just had Matt McGinness on the podcast.
Okay.
Former COO, now CPO.
Yep.
At rippling. So that would be a good combo, those two. Jason, I don't know if you know this,
but you're. You're the perfect podcast guest because you have such deep experience in the
space that you just have answers to everything I ask.
Plus, you're now just living in this future that we're all heading towards and you're like,
hands on, telling us, here's how the future will be and here's how it works and here's how
you can get there, and here's what you shouldn't do, and here's what we'll break. So I'm just
so thankful that you're here sharing all this advice with us. I'm excited for many more
podcast conversations, so. So thanks for doing this.
All right, Lenny, you're the best. I'm, I'm, I'm just a super fan. I'm lucky to be here, so thank
you.
Let me just ask you, how can listeners be useful to you? As a closing question, the fun thing.
For me, we have two websites, Saster.com and Saster AI. Just go to Saster AI and just play
with the tools we built. Play with the valuation calculator we talked about. Play with the
aivc. Play with any of our tools and just have fun and share any feedback. Because I've
waited 10 years to build tools for the Saster community. Now I want to build like 20. So on

the side, we've talked about tools you should go buy, but building your own stuff is pretty
fun too.
So try our tools and give me kind but critical feedback but. But with some kindness.
Okay? And that's s. A. A str.
AI Dot AI. Yeah, we're still trying to figure out the AI versus the.
Com.
We got an SEO issue, so I can't really move it over, but it looks great.
It works. It works. It's shorter, too.
It is shorter.
Jason, thank you so much for being here.
All right, Lenny, you're the best.
Bye, everyone. Thank you so much for listening. If you found this valuable, you can
subscribe to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app. Also, please
consider giving us a rating or leaving a review, as that really helps other listeners find the
podcast. You can find all past episodes or learn more about the show@lennyspodcast.com
See you in the next episode.

