What happens when you scale fast to 260 plus files a year, but your business no longer fits
your lifestyle?
Well, Jolene Cloutier and I chat today about how she built, scaled a very large business with
just her and her husband, and how she had to completely reinvent herself as well as change
the way she does things in order to create something that makes sense for her.
We talk about how she scaled out staff, how she led some burnout and breaking points, how
she created a podcast that's not about mortgages, has to do a complete system rebuild.
If you want to grow fast and you want to build a business that you don't need a break from,
you're going to want to listen to this episode.
Hey, I'm Scott Peckford. This is the I Love Mortgage Brokering podcast.
And each week we bring you guests stories and tactics to help you grow your business.
I'm the founder of Bricks Mortgage, and I just want to say I had a great conversation with
Jolene, and honestly, it was very inspiring.
And before we get into this, though, I want to give a shout out to our sponsor, Ownwell.
Ohmwell is a tool made by some really smart people.
What it does is it runs these reports that they send to your clients on a monthly basis that
shows your buying power and your home equity.
And the great part is, is that your clients get these reports, the click rate 60 to 80%.
And it creates conversations around what can I do with my house?
Can I take, Should I do a refinance? Can I buy another house? And it's an amazing tool.
Check them out at omwell Ca Scott. And check out this conversation with Jolene.
Hey, Jolynn, welcome to the show.
Hey, thank you so much. I'm excited to be here.

So I always like to ask, tell me about your, how you got into the mortgage biz.
All right, so I started in 2009 full time, and it was because my husband had started in 2007
as a mortgage broker, and he was too busy.
So, like, 2008 is when, like, the rates really dropped. So he got so busy.
And he was very French from, like, Edmondson, like, northern New Brunswick.
So he wasn't comfortable, like, speaking to, like, the English clients.
So he's like, hey, can you like, I had another job.
And he's like, can you, like, call them, take the application and like, I'll do the more like,
background stuff, the bank stuff, and I'll just.
Little did you know, he was just gonna. He's gonna be like, peace out.
So 15 years down the Line. So then we started working together. Eventually.
Eventually I had to choose, like I couldn't do both, right. So I got busy.
So I was like, okay, do I want to.
I was in marketing, like brand new out of college in marketing, which I love. I love
marketing.
So it was kind of like a decision of like, okay, well obviously I'm making so much money
here.
Mortgage broker versus what I was doing at a starter position.
Marketing. What do you mean? Because that's a pretty broad.
So I mean that's the college course that I took was marketing.
And then I was doing fundraising or like I was a marketing coordinator for a non for profit
is.
Is where I was.
And so that was like my first job, but it was more like recruiting people for like fundraisers

and stuff and just kind of keeping up with, I don't know, flyers and whatever, being the
communicator, organizing events.
So I really like loved it. I love people, right? So. And that's like exciting to me.
So yeah, when Patrick started being like, hey, can you help? And I was.
Because when I was watching him do like being a mortgage broker, I was like, I could do
that.
Like I always knew I had an inkling that it would like maybe come to that.
But I knew I could like do the job because I just love talking to people and helping them.
So yeah, so then I, I eventually decided like, we'll just jump into it full time.
And so I've been doing it for a long time, so we did it together.
Obviously he was like, he was like a mortgage ninja.
He was like the big like top producer like for years and years like in the industry and with a
little like hundred thousand dollar mortgages, he was doing like just pumping mortgages.
So how many mortgages in a top? Like what was the most mortgage you guys done in a
year?
The most was 200, like 60 some I think presents. Just him and I. Just him and I. That was just
us.
You know, I find man, that these smaller markets with you guys are just so much more
efficient.
There's just no compared to the bigger markets, you know, with the bigger mortgages.
I don't know what happens, but my observation has been people that have smaller
mortgage markets, they seem to just be.
More productive than maybe right. I don't know what we were doing.
Like Patrick was just like a ninja.
He was like had a phone in one ear and then like typing an email at the same time, like
answering to like the, the office phone and his cell phone.

He was just like, it was pretty insane to watch. Like it Was. Anyways, so he was able to do
that.
I'm more like a laid back, like, okay, when they come. I just. I mean, whatever.
Like, take care comes in a day. Yeah, right.
Yeah, I'm more like that type of person, like, really taking more of my time with them.
But he's like, oh, yeah, I need that piece of by noon. And then they're like, okay.
And then they would do it. So it worked. So, yeah. So we did that for many years together.
I mean, I say together, but really we're just two mortgage brokers doing our own clients.
And in the same office. There's other agents too, that aren't like, just on their own in our
office.
So we did that for years. And then 2021.
So Patrick had some apartments with his dad since, like 2012.
And then in 2021, they incorporated and like, doubled the amount of apartments.
They bought like a whole other bunch, which was a good move. Now looking back.
So at that point, he got too busy with renovating, like, his apartments and, like, all of the
stuff going on where I was like, that's when we hired our savior.
So my assistant, slash, she does fulfillment basically, but she's like my assistant for a lot of
things.
She helps me with a lot of things.
So when she came in, that's when we, like, saw that he was, like, trying to do everything and
it was just not.
He couldn't keep up with everything.
And, like, mortgage things would come up and we're like, okay, so we'll.
So we took like, basically what was left of the files to finish them. And then he just.

We're like, go do your thing. You'll come back whenever if you want to. And then he just.
He's been crazy busy with that ever since.
So basically I like, took over all that and had to be more organized and really, like, okay.
Like, now I'm the one running the show here, so. Because I always let him do it.
So that was like a big transition for us for sure. Yeah. It's been a crazy for.
For last four years for us.
And then have you ever had, like, you said you had broke. You had brokers work for you
before?
Like, no other.
No, you've always had, like, pretty much primarily you guys focus on your own production,
right?
Yeah.
And.
Okay, I just got tired of. And we would, like, send faxes.
Like, back then it was sending everything by fax.
So it was like you met the clients, got all their documents, made copies, do the whole
package, and you would fax it to the bank and hope that they get it and also that you didn't
need to send anything else.
But if you did, I mean, whatever was a few other faxes, but it was a lot less like back and
forth, I would say, than like now I feel like now it's just like, right.
What do you feel is different? What do you think is the biggest.
What's good about now and what's not as good?
I feel like there's too many emails. Too many emails. I just get lost in there. Like, oh, my
brain.

Just like my battery, if I was a battery, you would see, like, it drained.
Like, just the emails and the. Too many ways to communicate with you.
So like, like personal DMs, then you have your Instagram ones, like Facebook Instagram,
then you have your business one.
Then you have your text messages and voicemails and calls and like emails.
So it's like there's just too many ways, which is also something that I realize.
You have to train people how, like, what do you prefer and what works best and where do
you want people to, like, communicate with you?
So, like, when someone's like, hey, can you send this to me by email?
Like, if I'm like sending a DM to someone, I'm like, hey, do you want to be on?
Because on my podcast, which is how I do it to get guests on my podcast, I just send voice
messages because they're like, what's this?
This?
Right? So they'll listen to it and then they hear my voice and stuff.
But then sometimes they're like, hey, can you just send it to me by email?
And I respect that so much because it means that they're organized and they don't. They.
They want it to be all in one place. So to me, I'm like, I get it. I get that for sure.
I'm not as organized like that, but I definitely am on track to like, wanting to become better
at it.
So. But I just, I don't know. Yeah, that's where I'm at.
Your podcast. No, I agree with you. You gotta, you've gotta.
I've talked to some really smart brokers about this and there's a few ways you can do it.
Obviously, one of them is push everybody into a single channel as much as you can when it's
mortgage related.

As soon as it's file related, say, hey, just for.
So that my, you know, you can give them a reason for compliance or for, you know, my team
and I can make sure we don't miss anything.
Can you make sure anything that's due to the mortgage.
Because what can happen is you can have somebody message you, hey, I've changed my
mind on I want to change my down payment in a text.
Well, yeah, text and yeah. And no one else knows that this.
And then the documents come out, they're wrong.
And you're like, now you got to just extra work versus if everything came in through a single
point, you know?
Yeah.
Then one thing I find for sure and like I find with our team now, like because we're more
than one person, right.
Doing a file is where we see that.
It's like my client texts me and then she doesn't like fulfillment doesn't know that oh, they
wanted to change this.
Like you have to think about everything.
So that's where I'm at right now is to like really streamline like our process and really
having it being organized.
Because we're, we're not, we're just hoping right now we're just kind of doing our best at
picking everything up that comes at us, I guess, and organizing it, organizing the chaos.
But I'm ready to like feel calm in my mind and body and just like everything's under control
and everyone knows what they need to do, what their lane is.
The biggest thing for me though is when someone reaches out anywhere, phone, dm, email,
whatever, we just always send the link to apply.
And so that way wherever they came from, they're all going to come in one place.

So that was the biggest thing in 2021 when like I created my like inquiry, I guess steps until
like the pre approval stage.
That's how I organized.
Like that was like the biggest thing I did in our business for sure, for sure was hiring
someone to help me like create that process.
We tweaked it so many times too.
We tried all those things, like seeing where it would like where the bottleneck was like so.
And I realized like I'm not good at deciding who, who I want to call first on my list.
So like getting clients to schedule their call was the probably the biggest game changer for
me.
And I was scared to do it because I was like, I don't really want to like give them access to
my calendar and them decide like.
But then I was like, I just need to try it and I'll see. And it was the biggest because of.
The volume of leads that you generate. I mean they're self selecting in some ways.
So the people that are the most serious will do the call, whereas the people who are just
kind of.
So it's in a Week.
They're not, like, in a rush, but I would have to decide, use my brain power to, like, my
energy to be like, oh, do I call them first?
Oh, like, just have to think about it too much. And then I kind of, like, freeze and not call.
Yeah.
I mean, like, I just feel like I'm not good at it.
So that was the biggest, like, difference for me was for them to schedule.
Because then, like, I have to call them at 10. Jamie. Like, it's in my schedule.
So that, for me, really works.

Tell me about your podcast. What. What. When did you start it and what was the.
What's the goal? I started my podcast 2023 in July. I had think. I had thought about it for
years.
I was like, oh, I'd love to, like, start a podcast, but I don't know about what.
And I don't want to do it about mortgages because it's like, I talk about it all day long.
Like, that's not what I want to do.
Like, I get. How much could you really talk about?
Yeah, I just.
I'm like, purchase plus improvements. They're going crazy.
I know, right? And I just. I knew I wanted to, like. Like, have one and do it, because I love.
I just love talking to people and, like, doing videos. I just.
It's easy for me, but I'm really curious about people. So I was like, I do I want to have guests?
Do I want to do it solo? Do I want to have the same person and just two people talking?
And I knew that I'm better at having someone else for sure than solo.
I've only done, like, one solo episode because I felt like it, but other than that, so I have
guests, so.
And what prompt me to do it was I was like, I have so many. I'm interested in knowing
people's like.
Like. Like specific stuff.
Like, people that start businesses or shut down their businesses and, like, totally change our
lives.
Like, I see people around me and I'm like, oh, my gosh. Like, what are they?
Like, I want to know the story. Story. So I was like, okay, I'm just gonna ask.
I'm just gonna start it, and we'll see where it goes. I can change directions anytime.

Like, I'm the boss here, so I make the rules. So I decided to.
I just asked a few people that I was, like, generally, like, genuinely curious about people that
I knew.
I was like, hey, do you want to. I started my podcast. You want to be on it?
I hadn't done anything yet. I just decided I was Starting it. And they're like, yeah, for sure.
So I was like, it's people that follow the things that light them up in business and in life.
And I just, like, I'd love to have you on. They're like, yeah, for sure.
So I had, like, three or four people say yes.
So I was like, okay, now I need to figure out the rest. Keep going. Yeah. Yeah.
So I feel I already had my CRM for the mortgages, so I just created a form with a link and
sent it to them so that it was actually organized, like, from the start for that stuff.
And, yeah, I just, like, I just want to know, Like, I want to know the real things and not, like,
the fluff that people.
And you can tell really quickly when someone's, like.
When someone is, like, either authentic or not. Yeah. Like on. Online.
So when you see them on social media. So anyway, so that's how I started. So that's the
most.
Generally, what's one of your most interesting guests or one that you liked? I'll put a.
We'll put a link to the show notes in it so people can go check it out.
I have so many. I really. I feel like, what I noticed.
I'm gonna try to think of, like, the one maybe that.
I mean, my last one was probably my favorite one, and I did it.
I brought my laptop with me, and we did it actually together, because usually we do it on
Zoom.

So it was Amanda Rondo, and she was actually, like, a breast cancer survivor, and she's like,
flower, 44 years old, I think.
So she talked about her journey, but. But, yeah, I just.
I realized that when I was asking more people, I was like, okay, who's the next guest?
Like, how can I, like, ask, like. Like, people that are tougher to get or, like, whatever?
And then I realized, like, the ones that were just, like, normal people in the community were
like, my favorite ones.
Cause then they weren't used to being on podcasts, so they weren't curated to, like, what,
like, the answers weren't already thought of.
So I realized that, and I was like, oh, my gosh. Like, these were my favorite people.
And they were like, never been on a podcast before, and they were super excited.
They would share it a lot more than someone that just is on podcasts all the time. Right. So.
So, yeah, so I, like, realized that.
So I'm like, I'm not gonna, like, force myself to ask, like, oh, the next big guest.
Like, I was like, right.
Just find. Follow your curiosity.
That's what I've done with this podcast really is just follow my curiosity. And.
And, yeah, so that's. That's interesting.
And I also see a lot of people who start podcasts that get excited if they.
Especially if they use a guest model, which I like, because I'm. I'm.
I'm always like to learn about people, but then they run out of guests,.
And then I know it's a tough thing to do. Yeah. So.
So one thing I decided last year, mostly because I was burnt out, and then we moved to our

cottage, so I was like, I don't feel like having scheduling.
Like, I wanted a break basically, of recording, having to think about asking, who am I going
to ask next?
Asking them, getting them to fill it out. And I mean, most.
Most guests that I ask, they say yes, and they do fill it out and book it.
But I was just like, I just need, like, a mental break. So I decided to call it Seasons.
So I'm like, okay, like, season's over, and then I'll see you in the fall.
And so now I'm like, I just.
I love that about you. You're not putting that pressure on yourself of.
But you're willing to start, but you're also not putting the pressure on yourself that you have
to.
You can't change it. Right.
Sometimes people, they don't start because they think they've got to get.
They've got to launch it perfectly. And you.
Then you never launch it, but in your case, you're figuring it out, and then you're like, I'm
just going to call it a season so I can.
Take a break for the summer and I'll come back later because I just don't want to do it in the
summer.
Yeah. My mindset is different, and I just want to chill.
I just want to give myself permission to relax a little bit and not be on the rush. Like, go
train.
Yeah. So I'm. I give myself permission to, like, whatever. When I'm feeling something like
that.
I do. I don't feel bad about it.
But also I sometimes realize when it's time to, like, okay, like, let's go hustle.

Like, sometimes I get too comfortable, like, relax, like, being like, okay, whatever, whatever
happens.
Like, I'll just. I mean, like, so sometimes I'm, like, working from home.
That's okay.
But, yeah, that's funny. My puppy.
Okay.
But, yeah, what.
So has a podcast, like, what has been.
Has there been any benefit for your mortgage business having the podcast?
Yeah.
Directly or indirectly.
So, I mean, I've had example a few I mean, I. I didn't check the numbers, but I did have a few
guests that we did their mortgage after.
And so, like, directly we did business through that and like, referrals.
So I get a lot of referrals either from. From my guests or people that heard one of their.
Like, Jeremy. Because when you have guests, they share it to their people. So then you.
You get like new followers and stuff, or people I think can get to know you better hearing
you talk.
And just like, that's how I decide who I deal with, like, basically in my life. So.
So yeah, I've definitely had some mortgage, like, mortgage business from it and also, like a
part like realtors.
And I don't feel like the realtors send a lot. Like, I mean, I don't chase realtors, so.
But I've had some. And.

And some are like, they're like, hey, like, when are you starting your podcast? And like.
Yeah, I mean, so they're like, obviously listening. So. So it's nice. I think it's just.
Yeah, the trust level. It creates a trust level there for sure.
Right. You. So you. You got on social media several years ago.
One of the things that you're really good at is telling stories through social media.
So, like, give me an example of, like, how you think about that. Because one of the.
How do you curate stories?
Because what I try to do is I get an idea, I put them in this little list, and then.
Oh, you do? Okay. So I used to try to do that, like, oh, I need to make videos.
Because I had started, like, a YouTube channel, like 2021, and it was going great, but I had to
talk to someone.
Right.
So I had my other, like, another agent in our office, and we would just like, chat about stuff,
like mortgage stuff.
And it was going really great, like we were. But I find when I make a list of.
Of things that I need to. I like when something prompts me.
So when I'm talking in client and I'm like, oh, my gosh, they don't know this.
Like, I forget that people don't know this.
Right?
And then that's when I'm like, okay, I'm just gonna, like, take my phone and talk to it, tell
them.
But then you have that, like, feeling, right? So for me, I don't make a list.
I really go with when something comes. Like, basically I get a download from the universe,
whatever.

Like, I don't know where it comes from. Right? It comes in.
I'm like, I find a lot my best ideas, conversations, and then it's like, oh, yeah.
For me. Sometimes I get. I listen to like in my car or like I have headphones with music on.
Like most of the time when I'm working.
And sometimes just a song will, like, I get kind of like an idea from it. I just see something.
I'm like, give me like, what. Give me an example.
Like, how can music so. Okay, well, when. When I switched brokerage with bricks. What's.
What's it called? We were.
So we were reported for our marketing or whatever with the, like, with the licensing, with
the regulators.
So then the song in like a remix, it was like, I feel like people are watching me. Like that
song.
I forget what the.
So that somebody's watching me.
Someone's watching. Yeah. So that I heard this song, I was like, oh, my gosh.
And then I saw like, us just like, I don't know what we were doing, but I just like, got that,
like, so I got.
Sometimes I get the songs first. I'm like, oh, we need to use this song.
And then I see what we should do with it or just leave it. And then it comes. So I don't.
I don't like, push to, like, create content. I let it come to, like, me and then I do it.
Like, I have to do it, though. That's the thing. Sometimes you get ideas and you don't.
Like, you don't go ahead with it. Right. You just like, leave it. It's just an idea, you know?
And I would say that's my. My mistake is that I get these.

I'll have a conversation with someone and then an idea will come and then it went later.
Write it down.
The same. I write it down, but I don't.
Energy, emotional energy.
The difference is the energy.
Because you're like, oh, my gosh, I just talked to this person about this, whatever it was, you
know?
Yeah.
I talked to a guy who recently an agent who couldn't. Couldn't.
He tried to access his Facebook ads account, but he couldn't because his email was with his
old brokerage.
And so I. After that I'm like, that's so like, I gotta say something about this.
So that I did create some content around it. But it's interesting and I know that.
I know that happens, but you forget to talk about it until you write someone who's had that
issue.
Right. Or trouble with your Google. You had the Google trouble with your Google account.
Right.
Which was another whole other thing.
So, yeah, I. I don't think I posted about.
I didn't do a video about that, but yeah, yeah, we had to restart our Google business page,
but all good.
All good. I'm over it. I'm over that. Yeah, I'm almost over it.
I don't, I, I, I, I try not to let it.
Because when you get into a negative headspace, you actually get dumber.

They say, like, when you're positive, you're 31, smarter.
So if you want to not problem solve and not find solutions, get mad and angry, and then you
just get dumb, and then you're like, okay, I'm not even gonna find a solution.
So it's not like a very positive person.
I am. Yeah, that's probably my superpower, actually, now that you say that.
Yeah, I can turn any, like, shitty situation into, like, well, at least, like, Jamie.
I can do that for anything or almost anything. Pretty much. Yeah. I'm very.
Yeah, I, I don't like to stay there in that headspace. It's like, I just want to move on.
I just want to, like, leave that in the past. Learn from it. Keep going.
Keep going and feel good and be happy.
He's been accused of being toxically positive.
Like, I think he's like, if I'm, I would say I have the same. I'm like, he's here, like, at the top.
If you can't see my hand, it's high. I'm a few notches below.
But he was homeless for a month with his brother living in his car, and he's like, this is the
best I get to just hang out with my brother.
I'm like, who thinks that way?
I mean, like, yeah, I get it. I get it.
Like, I could, you know, I get that you can find, like, not ideal, but you can find it for sure.
I've always found it. Yeah.
I'm always like, well, like, it's shitty, but, like, we're gonna figure it out or whatever.
It's just. It is what it is, but just sometimes.
Okay, so I got two questions, a couple of questions on ask, but one is what. What is the.

What are you most excited about changing in your business right now?
I know we talked, touched on this, but, like, what are you working on that you feel like.
And I want to just preface this by saying that you guys have funds, a lot of mortgages, and
with, without the real great systems like, like that, you know, that you can put in place like
that you, you've got some things you want to fix.
So talk to me about what you're doing there.
Okay. Yes. So I'm really excited about. We're creating.
We're like in the process of creating our like, workflows.
So like really like elaborate, like automation.
So I want to automate anything that we like send the same type of email or to the jamming
to our clients or to the lawyer to the realtor to keep them updated on where the file is.
Anything that we can automate, like, we want to do it.
Also when I say that, like, I don't like having too many emails, I mean like as a client or
anything.
So I don't want to do that too many. I just want to do like the important ones.
Like, I just want to keep it going so that we don't have to do anything that.
Or think about having to do something on our own. So I really want our system to be
automated.
So that's what we're working on right now.
So we just, just like jumped on my broker pro and it can do a lot of things more than that.
But like, that's the base right now is what we're creating. So we're super excited about it.
So I'm like, I can't wait to.
Like not be done this because at least because people know this.
I know people that run the whole business off a spreadsheet and you guys did for the most
part.

So what, what shifted for you to go, wait a second, I'm going to do something different.
So I think I've been thinking about it for years of like, I knew I could do it.
I just didn't feel like it. I didn't have the energy to do it or the mindset.
So I was just kind of like surviving, like, just doing my best. And like we were.
We've always been steady, busy. So I think it's.
It's more like when you start realizing that you don't want more deals really, like,
subconsciously you don't call people back soon enough or you don't answer messages or
like, oh, you don't tell your clients or approve for like three days.
Yeah, that's. To me, that's an indicator. Like it, it shouldn't be like that.
It's a good problem to have. But it's like enough is enough.
I just basically we switched to bricks in May or like end of May, like June, basically.
And when we switch, I was, I think I was craving a lot of change.
So it was like the best thing for us, for me anyways.
I really needed to change and I got like, I changed everything.
So we changed brokerage, which was like a quick decision we had to make. Like within two
weeks.
Like, it was just a weird situation but I wasn't planning on switching and I don't think I ever
would have switched, which is weird.
Like, just because I was so used to it, I wasn't looking at changing.
So when I did, it was just kind of like, okay, well what else do I like or don't like?
Like I really analyzed everything. So I was like, okay, I want to. We went from Phylogix to
finmo.
So then we, we jumped on finmo. I went from my, like you said, the emails.
So we had to create new emails. Lost, like, don't have access to my old email addresses.

And so I had, I couldn't log into my Outlook.
So I'm like, okay, whatever, I'm just going to use a Gmail. So then now I'm like on Gmail.
I changed everything and I was like in the mindset for it. I was excited.
I wasn't like, oh my gosh, like, nothing's working. I was like, okay, whatever.
Actually, this is good. This is good. It's fresh, it's new. Like I'm excited.
Oh, look at what it was. A reset. Yeah, it was. Yeah.
I even like changed my car like Toyota to Honda.
Like I literally changed teams on everything and I was like excited about it.
So, yeah, so I think it was just time and I had to.
I guess at that point it was just like, whatever, survival. But. But yeah, no, I was choosing.
I was like, no, I don't want to fix the Outlook.
I want to go into Gmail and for it to feel different. So I was just due for a change. Yeah, right.
And also I just want.
How do you find Fimo vs Phylogix now that it's been a few months?
So once it's like you get used to it. I really love fimo. Oh my gosh.
So I feel it's more like intuitive at first.
It's not because you're used to filogics and where everything is, when you can find
everything is.
Yeah, there's always a learning curve to new software.
Yeah.
So we had tried a few years ago to change to finmo and then I just didn't feel like I could like
do a pre approval quick enough.

When people called back and they were like, what about this? Or whatever.
And then I had to change things.
I felt like I couldn't find anything and I was like, I can't do this.
So we went back, we were so busy. It was like 20, 22 or 3, I don't remember, but 23, I think.
And.
But yeah, so I already was familiar with it. We already had accounts, like, old accounts.
Accounts.
Right. So. But yeah, I just love. There's a lot of things in there.
That's more I can't, like, think about, like, right now. But there's a few things that I.
Like, we were already collecting documents somewhere else, but this one's fine. Like, it
works good.
And. But yeah, no, I. I like the. The notes. Okay. My favorite thing is the submission notes.
That it writes your notes.
Right.
Best thing ever. Yeah.
Right. That's good.
Is there anything I didn't ask you about that you think would be interesting to our listeners?
I mean, if we're, like, talking social media, because they like to talk about that.
I feel like people are always scared to, like, or, like, what am I gonna post?
Like, or how many times a week or whatever.
I feel like people need to, like, just follow what feels right to them and not. And stop
following.
Like, unfollow all of the.
Like, you should be doing this and you should be doing that, or this many times.

Like, posting this many times. It needs to be a real, like, when. When there's too many rules.
Like, I'm, like, I'm out. Like, I need to, like, feel, like, intuitively it feels good.
So I feel like if someone's not like, posting about anything or just about mortgages.
So, like, literally, I don't post hardly about mortgages on my page.
Like, it's mostly my life or just random stuff.
Is it Instagram or Tick Tock or where do you find them?
So I had started on Tick Tock for videos because I just love the way that it was that you
could edit them, but then they became like.
Then they copied it in the reels. So now I just do, like, Instagram videos or stories.
I do a lot of stories, which is just my daily life, easy to post.
And anything that I'm like, oh, like, I don't know.
It's like, during your day, there's things you can post about.
And I just see it as, like a storyline. So sometimes it's just like, oh, like, I'm at home today.
Like, it doesn't need to be much.
And it's just like, oh, my dog did something, like, funny, or she's cute like Jamie.
Like, it doesn't need to be much. And I think people overthink about it.
So if someone's like, oh, I need to do this. It's like, stop saying you need to.
It's like you can say, I just don't want to do it instead.
Right.
It'll feel better.
That's like ownership language instead of. Yeah, I always said the would, you know, the
should.

No, I try to. I still say it, but I'm like, oh.
And then I correct it because I'm like, it's not true. It's like, oh, I. I could.
I didn't have time to go to the gym. It's like, no, you chose not to, like, prior to prioritize it.
So. So, yeah, I definitely.
Yeah, it's. It seems to me like you have a. Like, a very strong ownership bias in your mindset.
Right. A high level of.
They call agency, which is you get to choose versus the world's not happening to me. Yeah.
The world happens, but then I get to choose, and I just think that's the way to live.
Honestly, I don't know that.
And when I do that, it feels better.
Yeah, I get sucked into it as well. But it's. It is much better to think I'm always.
Even if there's a problem, it's 1% me. I'm like, okay, I want my 1%. What 1%?
Did I contribute to this so that I can then learn and I still have some ownership over, even if
it's 99%, you know, someone else?
100%. Yeah. No.
If the kids, like, miss the bus or the bus is late and I'm like, it's, like, kind of inconvenient,
then I'm like, maybe I was going to get in an accident.
Confident, like, that's why someone's protecting me.
That's my mom.
I literally just try to change it. I don't stay there long. I'm like. And I'm like, okay, it's fine.
It's fine. Keep going.
Yeah, that's so good. Okay, well. Hey, Joe JoLynn, thank you for coming to chat with me.
I really appreciate it.

I'm excited to see what you do with your new processes on top of your already successful
business.
So thanks for chatting with me and anybody listening. Definitely go follow you on Social.
Amazing. Thank you so much, Scott. I appreciate it.
Hey, thanks again for listening, and hopefully you're inspired by my conversation. I know I
was.
And I always love when I see people do things their own way and not copy everybody else
and build successful businesses.
And as I mentioned on this episode, you know, I find people that are in markets where the
mortgages are smaller just somehow figure out how to be more efficient.
So if you want to be more efficient, copy.
If you're in a big market, with big mortgages copy what the people do in the smaller markets
because it absolutely works.
And as I always say, there's no problem in your mortgage business someone else hasn't
already solved your problem, or your challenge rather is is who's got the answer, and this
podcast is designed to provide some of those answers.
Thanks for listening and I will see you on the next episode.

