



Do you need more leads or just a different business model?

A couple weeks ago on our mastermind call, one of our agents were sharing some of the changes they made to their business to make it the most profitable year ever.

Last year, 330 some files, 1.6 million top line revenue.

And that's with three staff members, including themselves. Everybody on the call was like, oh my gosh, this looks amazing.
So I want to share with you some of the things, the changes they made to their business to make this possible so that you can steal some of these ideas for your own business.

So the first thing they did was they used to have this model. And you probably heard this.
You got your underwriter and you got your fulfillment person.

So one person, usually the person with more experience, underwrites and then the less experienced person will do fulfillment.

They realized that, you know what, the lenders that we like to work with, there are two kind of models in the lending world.

Most people know this, but if you don't, I'll explain it to you.

There is a model where multiple people touch a file when you send it into an underwriter.

There's an underwriter, there's fulfillment, there could be secondary underwriting and all this other stuff.

And then there's a model, what we call the BRM model.

And really the first company that I know that did this or might have been somebody beforehand was Scotiabank.

But Scotiabank actually got it from MapleTrust, which was the company that Scotiabank purchased.

That's a little history for you, if you even care.

But essentially mapletrust had this model where you had a single point of contact. That person could crush a lot of mortgages.
And they had to look at every piece of document, sign off and approve it. It made the process more efficient.
And I call it like getting to be a Scotia VRM is like getting in the NHL of underwriting. There's a high expectation, but they also have high output.
But other lenders do the same. It's not just Scotia.
So what they did is they decided, okay, we have right now this model where we have two different people working on a file.

And it created confusion for the client. Client would be like, who am I talking to? They would say something to one person.
There's always telephone game that can happen.

And they realize they're like, the lenders that we like don't do that. Why don't we just have ourselves?
So they're the salesperson. So think of it.
They do the strategy call and then they attach one person to that file.

Not only do they attach one person to that file, they attach one person to entire referral

partner.

So if it's a key referral partner, say a real estate agent, they will be assigned.

And let's say if it's one of them and they got four files they're working on, they'll only ever talk to the broker.

So the salesperson and the BRM is what they're calling it, and it makes it much more efficient.

This has created significantly better.

And this doesn't show up in the P and L because obviously you can just look at the numbers and go, okay, maybe it's even cheaper to have a underwriter and fulfillment person.

But you don't create as good of an experience.

So what they did is they just created this model and it's made a massive difference and reduced stress and increased referrals.

That was the first thing before that model.

As I said, they had this split model and it was clunky, didn't work as well for their clients.

The second thing that they did is that when they hire people, they use the disc profile system and what they're looking for is high S's and C's.

So if you don't know much about disc, D is dominance.

And most salespeople basically and S&Cs are stable and they're more cautious and they're going to follow systems and process.

They don't want to be upfront.

The mistake I see a lot of brokers make is that when they go to hire, and especially when you're new, I've done this several times actually before I learned the lesson is they hired themselves.

They're like, oh my gosh, you and me were both the same. This is going to be great.
But you're just training your competition.

You're hiring somebody who wants to be you.

And let's be honest, if you hired you, would you keep working for you? Probably not.
You're probably going to. I can do this myself.
And so what they do is they hire people that, that are higher S's and C's.

They love to be part of a team and that allowed them to create this fantastic model where they can then trust them.

Third thing I think they did really is that there's two partners in this business. One of them's really good at process, the other one's really good with people. And so they divide.
One person manages the team, the other person manages the process in the back end, improves it.

So simultaneously, one person can be improving the processes and the other person can be improving the team.

The Morale, the camaraderie, because they're leaning into their strengths.

And so this model, I think more brokers should look at adopting this if you can find the right partner.

Now, a couple things, caveats to this one, you have to run the exact same business.

So what they essentially do is they have under one brand and there's the two of them. They go and find their own business and they make their own money.
But they have shared infrastructure, so their costs are way down.

And because of the shared infrastructure, one of the underwriters goes off, the other one can pick up the slack and vice versa.

They can also cover for each other, but they do have completely independent businesses, but they have shared expenses around this single brand.

And I think that more brokers would do well if they could find the right person. Both these people are very high producing mortgage brokers.
So obviously they know how to sell, but they have that secondary skill. One of them is in people, the other one secondary, high skill is in process.
And so they're able to have these complementary personality types that can work, but you do have to use the same process.

You can't have different processes because then your staff is going to confuse. They're like, oh, you want it this way and they want it that way.
So the only way this works is if both of you have to come up with or compromise on what that process should look like.

I think it's a pretty cool model.

And the other part is that they, instead of just branding themselves, but branding their mortgage company that they had together actually give both of them more credibility.

It's like it's not just Scott Packford Mortgages. I've got this brand and I've got a partner.
And it created a much stronger appeal in the marketplace that they felt also helped them. So a couple quick recap on this.
First is they scrapped the model of having an underwriter and fulfillment person. They went with someone that was the broker.
And then one of the underwriters gets assigned to the client and assigned to the referral partner.

So there's only two people that the client or referral partner ever has to talk to.

And they told me once they implemented this, not long after they put it into place, what would happen is that referral partners reach out and say, hey, am I still working with this underwriter?

And they'd say, yes, no problem.

Because they were so good that they wanted to continue that relationship.

Just like you do when you're working with a lender and you're like, my gosh, I love working.

You have changed lenders because the underwriter that you work with at one lender moved to another because that's how powerful this is.

So it's the same kind of idea. It worked really well.
So that's the first thing they did.

Second thing they did is they hired people that were high S's and C's and so do a disc profile. Do not hire yourself.
Do a disc profile on yourself.

I suspect most of you, you are going to be high D and I, which is great because it means you have initiative, you're going to get shit done.

But what you also want to do is not hire that for this type of role.

And then the last thing they did is that they branded these under a single name as well as a process is the same.

And then the fourth thing, and this was probably by accident, but I think has made their partnership work even better, is they have different sort of secondary super skills of process and people allowing them to be able to build this fantastic team.

I think it's a fantastic model.

I personally think more brokers need to consider it. Hopefully you find this useful.

Give it a try. Consider.
I would challenge you to think about which lenders you like working with the best and why and then what.

Are you not doing the same for your clients? Hey, thanks for listening.
I'm Scott Peckford.

This is the Isle of Mortgage Brokering podcast and the idea is to share with you ideas and tools and tips to help you.

Each week I share either something that I've learned something from one of my coaching calls and I just wanted to share this because I thought it was an awesome story about what's possible.

Thanks for listening.
