Here we are, we are live. Let's see if we can get the first people in here. I'm excited.

First time using a new technology and I'll give everyone a, a second to get in here and to 
actually get on board in here.

And then if you're watching and you can see me, you can hear me, if you would give me a 
quick comment in the chat, please.

Maybe a little thumbs up something.

As I said, we're switching to a different tool, which I'm very excited about, but I just want to 
make sure everything is working.

So a little thumbs up, a little. Yes, we can hear you. That would be very much appreciated.

Echoing someone says all right then I'm trying to think what that could be.

So you're watching on LinkedIn someone that says all good. So it could be on your end.

Yeah, most people are saying that it's all good with the audio and video, so that is good.

I'm a little underweather, I have a cold.

So if I'm going to be sipping some extra water, coughing, sneezing, all that, then I do 
apologize in advance.

But that is unfortunately what happens when you have young kids at school.

So I see a lot of people here, LinkedIn, YouTube, mostly LinkedIn. I'm just, you know, trying 
to.

So we have instantly AI/Academy says live.

So I just posted a link there where you can also watch it just in case maybe you're having 
issues with audio, video, what have you, or even the future.

We have a live event and you're not 100 sure where to go, then that is our page.



So the Instantly Live base and then as you're on the Academy appreciable, I think that's 
pronounced full.

It says live. So I'm gonna, I want to check that out.

Then Dane says the room echo could be the things that when I have the microphone this 
close to our mouth is, is usually all right.

But I'll, I'll see if there's something I can do in the near future about that.

Unfortunately, now is not the time to start making my room more soundproof.

So I'm looking at the Instantly Academy and I'm live on there. That's good.

So for anyone who's going to ask about replays, future learning sessions, how to learn more 
about this, that type of thing, then the Instantly Academy is the place for you, is the place 
where you want to be and where you can learn all about outbound AI agents, GTM 
engineering, how to get more results, etc, so that is where you want to go.

So Instantly AI Slash Academy is where you can learn all of this at your own pace.

Right, so now we are, we are live, which is good.

I really like this format, but I understand that sometimes it might be going a little bit fast or 
you just want to, you know, rewind something, watch it again.

And then you know, the Instantly Academy is the place for you to learn at your own base.

You have some very interesting courses on there right now coming as well.

Very interesting stuff is coming there. So definitely make sure you check that regularly.

Then let's see, I'll give everyone one more minute and then we can, we can get started just 
for everyone to join.

Now, the, there's the most common questions that I always get.

I'm going to address the, the first two first. So will there be a replay? Don't leave.

But yes, there will be a replay on first of all on your preferred channel.

If you're watching on LinkedIn on the event, you will get the replay.



On YouTube you can find a replay.

And then on the instant, the Academy will post the replay ASAP as well.

So yes, there will be a replay.

And then as for other questions that you may have, just go ahead and drop them in the chat.

I read all of them, but I always take them in the last, let's say 15 minutes of the webinar 
because otherwise this breaks up the flow too much.

So I just take the questions by the end of, of our session here. Now we're scheduled for an 
hour.

I think this could be the, the shortest webinar that I will ever do.

Just because the setup of what I'm about to show you is just absolutely so flipping 
straightforward and easy that it really.

I could do the whole webinar in two minutes. I'm not gonna, I'm gonna.

I did a setup video not long ago last week, I think, where that just took, you know, just 
literally one minute to, to set everything up.

And I'm going to go into a little bit more detail here today and then we'll do a full AI sales 
agent course for the Academy soon as well.

So again, you can learn at your own pace.

So I'm going to start jumping in, I'm going to start sharing my screen before we get started.

I'm just curious if anyone has any, you know, questions about AI sales agents outreach in 
general that you may want to get out of the way.

Then maybe I can answer some questions and that will give some other people the, the time 
to join as well.

Then I will start sharing my screen. We can jump into it so William.

Hey, William, he's asking, are these AI sales agents industry exclusive or can they dep.

Can they be deployed or more traditional services? Absolutely.



So how it works, what you want to do is have a quick look at Instantly Supersearch.

If your leads are in there, then yes, you can deploy the AI sales agent for your industry as 
well.

So we use our own database for this as that, you know, as the data source. So have a look.

There are your leads in there. Great. Get the AI agent going and then you're, you're good to 
go.

Then you'll be.

So it really is as easy as just having a quick look at the, at the SuperSearch database.

So any other questions, drop me in the comments. I see all of them.

I will take them by the end of the webinar.

I'm going to start sharing my screen, have a sip of water and then we're good to go.

We're going to get started with AI sales agent.

Again, apologies for me being a bit under the weather. Jeffrey, just start.

Yeah, I got you, Jeffrey. Don't you worry. People are, are very excited, just like Jeffrey.

I appreciate it, Jeffrey. Let me see. So I'm just gonna get. There we go.

You're unfortunately no longer able to see me. But hey, that, you know, is what it is.

But at least you're able to see the important part.

So this is instantly now, if you're not familiar, we did some reshuffling here in the navigation
bar and you can navigate here to AI agents.

Then if you do that, you'll see two different options.

When you click Add new, so you want to click Add New, then you have the AI sales agent 
and the AI reply agent.

So the AI reply agent you potentially already saw, if you haven't, then definitely.

And if you haven't used it yet, definitely check it out.



And also check out the course that I did on that and how to set that up.

It makes your life a lot easier for where, where it manages your replies.

So you're getting, you know, you're sending cold emails, getting replies. Great.

Then reply agent handle this handles that for you. But now we ship the AI sales agent first.

A big question usually is, okay, how much does that cost?

So we made that very clear here on the front end.

It will cost you five credits per lead that is being processed and that is a lead that is being 
processed end to end.

Meaning that these are leads that we find the email, we write the email, send the email, 
reply to them, book the demo, everything end to end.

5 Friday so I think that's a phenomenal price just to have this set up an autopilot and as you 
can see, it finds icp, match leads, crafts the emails, then builds the multi step outreach 
sequences, then itself optimizes from reply patterns, which I think is something that is 
absolutely killer.

So it will look at, okay, what's working, what isn't and then self optimized based on that, 
which is a huge time suck usually when you know where you have to babysit your 
campaigns.

And now with AI sales agent, that's no longer the case.

So we're going to select the AI sales agent and what we're going to do.

So all you have to do is plug in your company URL or you can drop in manual instructions.

So if you're saying, okay, my website maybe doesn't have enough context or maybe okay, I 
have a website, but we have a, you know, a new product that we want to launch or just you 
want to use this AI sales agent just for this specific product, then great, have Claude or I 
don't know who write your, you know, product description, target audience and all that, 
drop it in there and, and then you're good to go as well.

But in our case we want to do outreach for the entire product suite that we have instantly 
AI.



You hit accept the AI sales agent terms and that's it. It really honestly is that easy.

Now what it's doing under, you know, let's say under the hood behind the scenes is it 
actually scrapes your website and then uses your website to build a, let's call the Go to 
market strategy or the go to market playbook where it looks at, okay, what is that this 
company does and what is likely to be the main vertical that they want to go after, Main 
Persona, the ICP that they want to go after.

So it's already finding initial prospects, preparing initial campaigns.

Now what that looks like is it wrote a business description.

So it looked at, okay, instantly, this is what they do great.

And then obviously it uses that further along in the process to actually write outreach, right,
Emails, et cetera.

And then there are different business offers that you have here and excuse me, when you 
click into them, you can see the whole thing.

So instantly helps sales teams at B2B companies book more meetings instantly, VIP helps 
enterprise and agencies book more sales meetings.

And then there's a lead finder as well.

So here you can say, okay, these business offers are great, but maybe for this quarter or for 
these specific campaigns we just want to focus on instantly.

Vip, for example, which is a killer service that we have or add a new one and then it will just 
use that business offer at that angle for reaching out, which is again very helpful.

Then under customer profiles there are different profiles you can see.

Again you can say we just want to use the instantly VIP servers that we have for marketing 
and sales managers at mid size agencies.

And when you click into this, there's more under it, more behind it.

As you can see, it goes down a lot and you can actually edit all of this.

So let me run you through really quickly.

So again, just to quickly recap, these are the icps that I will start reaching out to.



First it says, okay, these are the different business offers.

You can select the different business offers and then these are the icps that it will start 
looking for.

So this is just the name that you see when you click into will start looking at, okay, what 
problems do we actually solve?

And again, that is obviously something that it will use to write the emails and you can just 
delete them where you're saying, okay, it's great that I found this.

But you know, us actually talking to these customers, we realized that this is a better angle.

That is a better angle. Or you know what, it didn't 100% capture what we really do here.

That's completely fine. You add it and then it will start doing that going forward.

But in this case, looking at sales managers of mid sized agencies, for example, some of the 
problems that VIP solves for them is they have limited resources, they have challenges in 
actually creating the outreach themselves, difficulty managing follow ups.

Email deliverability is obviously a big one.

I already saw a question about that in the chat and I will get to that in just a second.

And then there's tying everything together. Now there are main benefits here.

As you can see some of these benefits, they are around the platform.

So AI copilot, if we want to reach out for vip, maybe I want to take out the AI copilot one 
and, and I would just want to add, okay, fully managed prospecting service, for example.

Right. So I will add that one and then it will focus on that. It's a one time setup.

It usually is just good, let's say off the shelf, out of the box, but just quickly skim through it 
and the more context you give it, the better it will be.

Right again, out of the box is good, but you could add these little tweaks and these little 
insights in the context that you only have because in the end it's your business and you 
know, you have a pretty Decent idea of what works and what doesn't.

The best part of the AI sales agent is that the moment you set it up, it will do everything for 



you.

This makes your whole life a whole lot easier.

So then unique selling points, that's pretty straightforward.

So only one platform then customer goals that they have.

So based on, you know, the problems that we solve, what are some of the, the goals that they
have?

And then it will say, okay, these are problems that they have. These are the goals that they 
have.

How can our solution tie into that? Just be that bridge in between and solve that.

That's how it actually writes the emails where it says, okay, we have a marketing agency, 
sales leader, this is a problem that they have.

This is our solution. Great, how do we tie all that together?

And it will write the email for every single prospect. So these aren't sequences.

It will actually write, let's call it one by one email.

So every single prospect, based on what it is that their company does and what they do, gets
unique email based on this entire playbook that we see here.

Then it pulls in success stories as well. Now this is a case study from our website.

And then that is actually a case study.

It can then just let's say name drop or mention a social proof in the email, which is obviously
a great thing to have in there.

And then that is up until success stories and below that.

So the keywords, this is the actual targeting.

So this is the actual targeting it will use with Super Search. Right.

It will start looking at, you know, industries, company sizes.



And again this, you can fully edit this and if you say, okay, great, but actually, you know, we 
can go after the bigger guys as well.

Great, just add it and it will start doing that. It really is that easy.

And then, you know, industries, that makes sense. The job titles, all of that makes sense.

Maybe we don't want to go after the freelancers. That's completely fine.

All of this, the moment you're saying, okay, that looks good, save it, you can add new ICPs 
obviously and then that is good to go.

Then we have guidance here. And that is the last thing that you can add here.

I'm not going to go too deep into this because this is all very, is a very broad scope of the 
things that you can add here.

But it can be something as, as simple as write in UK English or just custom rules that you 
want to set up here as you can add up to 10 different smart rules to store, you know, 
additional instructions for the AI sales agent.

My advice here is don't go, don't go bonkers at the beginning. Just have it run.

And then as you're seeing the performance and as you're seeing how it runs and what it 
does, then maybe you can say, oh, you know what, I like how it does that.

But I think that maybe could be a little bit different. Great.

You add a different smart rule here on the guidance and you keep, you know, you keep 
building and compounding as the agent actually runs.

So that's my recommendation for the additional guidance. So there we have it.

That was under the memory tab. Now it knows all there is to know about your business.

What does in our case instantly do? What are the separate, the different offers that they 
have?

What are different customer profiles that we sell into?

What are, you know, the, the problems that we sold for them. Great.

That gives us everything that we need to write good call emails.



And that is exactly what it will start doing.

Then here you can actually set up some of the settings. So I'm just gonna quickly run 
through them.

In my case, I'm a big fan of autopilot mode and as you can see well, and also auto reply to 
responses, which is the same as the AI reply agent that you already know and love.

So it's kind of the two things baked in one. Right. Which is very, very helpful.

It doesn't just send emails and then that's it.

It actually sends emails and then it keeps the conversation going and then actually tries and,
and actually book the meetings under here.

You can, you can actually drop in the accounts that you want to use.

Maybe you want to set some, you know, some accounts aside just for an AI as an experiment
or if you're saying, hey, you know what, I'm ready to hand off all of my outreach to the AI 
agent.

Great. Then just select all your accounts and that's it. Then you can set a schedule sending 
limit.

Now, this isn't something that is, you know, that is too exciting and you can play around 
with this.

You can obviously just, you know, set, you know, a limit that is realistic with how many 
inboxes that you have and then a schedule that makes sense for the ICP that you're going 
after.

So keep this in mind a little bit.

Maybe if you're going after, you know, UK markets and US markets, then it might be a good 
idea to set up two different agents.

Then each agent goes after a different geo. Right.

So after, you know, North America and uk, so you can optimize your sending schedule then 
here I recommend leaving all of this toggled on just to quickly run you through.

So disable open tracking. That's kind of, you know, best practice these days.



You can leave it on, but there's no real reason to leave it on, honestly. Then enable ESP 
matching.

If that's not something you're familiar with, what it does, it looks okay.

Imagine that you as a sender, you have a Outlook inbox for sending and a G Suite inbox for 
sending.

Like you probably have a 10 and 10 for example, and the recipient has an Outlook inbox.

Then it will try and send from the Outlook inbox to the Outlook inbox and vice versa.

If your prospect has a G Suite inbox, it will try and send from the G suite inbox.

That's just proven to get, you know, into the inbox more often. Helps with deliverability.

So we'll automatically do that.

Which is a pretty like it's a small future, but it's definitely one that makes a, makes a big 
difference.

Prioritize new leads. That is honestly one of my favorite ones. It's a really small city one.

But what it does and if you haven't read it yet on our website, we not long ago published the
cold email benchmark report.

And you can clearly see that if you know the first email is where you get most of your replies
and then by the second email, sure you get some replies but after that it's just, it drops off a 
cliff.

What that does is it will first imagine you have a thousand leads.

It will first send the first email to all thousand and then all the follow ups to 1000 instead of 
on, you know, day three, for example, it will send the first email to 10 leads and the follow 
up to another 10 leads instead.

It just does it, you know, one by one if you will.

And that, that is one of my favorite future as well because then you can just get, get more 
people that first email and you can just get more, more replies.

Let's say early on text based opt out which adds that plain text unsubscribe link to every 



email saying hey, and I'm sure you've seen it.

Like it will say if you, you know, if you don't want to hear from me anymore or if this isn't a 
good fit, just let me know and I will unsubscribe you.

So we'll add that. Excuse me. And then the Slack integration. So that's pretty 
straightforward.

So select the Slack channel and you will get notifications there as well as a daily report of 
activities which is very helpful where it will show you okay, you know, contacted this many 
people, this many replies, et cetera, and you can just keep tabs on things a little bit.

So definitely recommend setting up Slack and that's it. So let's have a look at the live feed.

So it found 10 leads so far, which, you know, which is great. And we can have a quick look.

One really small, you know, really small future that I like is the map here where it shows 
you exactly where the leads are, who we're targeting, and also shows you where the replies 
come from.

So who knows, maybe you're saying, okay, all of my replies are coming from New York and 
you can actually do a New York campaign.

But it's a small thing and, and I thought it was pretty neat, pretty cool.

But you'll usually be looking at this where, okay, you can just keep tabs.

And again, you get this in Slack as well.

But it's always good just to look at it and visualize things where you can see the status.

Right now it's learning, so it's looking. Okay, let's set something up.

Let's find some leads, let's see what's working.

And then the leads are actually in here, so you can see the actual leads and it will actually 
enrich them fully.

So for those of you who already have worked in, in Supersearch, you'll know that we have a 
lot of data in there, like a lot of different signals that you can look for.

So it will get company news, funding, etc. And all of that can be used for the email, right?



All of that is relevant to write the email. So we'll see.

Okay, this, for example, this company has been in business for 50 years.

As of 2023, it has raised up to Series B, I think maybe got acquired by, you know, by venture 
capital at some point.

Those are all things that once you throw all of that context into the AI Blender, you will get 
better messaging, right?

So you have all of that context, then you have the problems that you solve, the solutions that
you have.

All of that, again, is into the AI Blender. That just makes for good messages.

So you get your company description and then all of that turns into initial email, initial 
subject, and these subject lines, those are all things that we've optimized after sending, 
seeing literally billions of data points.

So billions of emails that we're seeing, and we're seeing what works and what doesn't.

And based on that, okay, these are the types of subject lines that actually work.

All lowercase, you know, three words usually. And those are the ones that Just really work.

Look like let's say an internal email then.

So initial email follow up 1, follow up 2, follow up 3 after that it's, you know, the chance of 
getting reply pretty much aren't there.

Then as you can see it writes the whole email based on all of that context.

And then the sentence I talked about, the opt out sentence that I mentioned, then here, all 
the, you know, all the emails, I'm not going to read through all of them but initial email, then 
there's the follow up and it takes a different angle based on, you know, there's the first angle
here, initial email, different angle for the follow up, different angle for, for the second follow 
up.

And then the third follow up is, you know what we call a, well I call it like a, let's say Hail 
Mary email, like a sequence saver where you know, where you really like you're letting 
them know, okay, you know, this is the last one that you get from, I'll pause here, this is the 
end of things.



But you know, this is what we do.

And then you'll be surprised how many replies you still get from just by saying, okay, you 
know, this is the last time.

Like it's that, you know, people don't really want to lose anything.

Like it's a FOMO type thing and people actually respond to that pretty well.

So I'm a big fan of that angle.

That said, these are the emails, they're very strong because of all the additional context that 
we usually have.

Now obviously someone asked me earlier, does it work for local businesses, lawnmowers, 
that type of thing?

Like yes, it does, but we're not going to find too much company news or anything too 
exciting about those businesses.

Right.

So the, the types of emails that you're going to find that we're going to write for those, 
they're very, very solid.

They just don't have as much rich input usually as for, you know, for well funded startups, 
for example.

Then again the email writer that we have here trained on so much data that even from just a
website or company description is able to come up with some really, really strong and solid 
emails.

Again, this is based on billions of data points.

So there's always, you know, there's always something there. Then that's honestly 
everything.

As I said, it could have been a two minute webinar.

We're at 20 minutes and the setup really is that easy. I do see a lot of questions.

So we're in a pretty unique spot where usually only have like 10, 15 minutes for questions.



Now we can take, you know, some more questions, which I think is, is good and exciting.

So this is the AI sales agent.

I very much encourage everyone to try it out, test it out and just, you know, play around 
with it for a bit and then set it maybe on human loop first and then later on autopilot and 
you'll be surprised by how well it runs.

So I'm gonna go through some questions.

If you have any questions, then just, you know, drop them in the chat, keep them coming.

And I see some, some business deals taking place in the comments as well, which is, which is
always positive.

I see everyone here's having a good time. All right, let me see.

So William, you asked about, you know, the landscape and cleaning, etc.

I hope I've addressed your question. Then Ryan is asking.

I feel overwhelmed with having or having to get so many domains and emails for this to 
work.

What's the minimum? That very much depends on your goals, on your market size, on.

Imagine it's just you and you want to book some sales appointments, then sending 2,000 
emails per day is not going to work because you're going to get a bunch of appointments.

Then you have to pause the campaigns and then you have to start them again.

And it just doesn't make a lot of sense to just try and blast through your entire market that 
way.

So instead just say, okay, just try and reverse engineer it a bit and say, what am I looking to 
achieve here?

How many demos appointments can I realistically take? What is my close rate from Cold 
Outbound?

How many clients does that mean I will add per month? Great.

Then you're a Verge engineer that you see how many emails you should be sending based 



on what currently your average reply rate is.

If you don't have that metric yet, maybe go with let's say a 2%, which is a conservative 
number in a lot of cases, not in all of them.

And then just do the, like crunch the numbers.

If you need to send, for example, 100 emails per day, then with between 15 to 20 inboxes, 
you're good to go.

And you can get done with a couple of domains.

So it really just depends on, you know, the, the metrics that you're working with.

Then it is asking, can we upload the leads manually? Not for now. For now.

It really is a fully automated process, so end to end.

And there's no option yet to bring your own leads. I'm not sure that's on the roadmap.

For now, it really is. The focus really is on the end to end. Prospecting flow.

Then does it validate the emails? Yes, it validates the email as well.

Finds the emails using our waterfall method, then validates them.

So definitely then the credits are charged if the agent is able to successfully execute the end 
to end task email reply book.

Now the credit is charged when the agent is able to successfully send the sequence.

As in, we find the lead, find the email, validate the email, write the sequence, send the 
sequence.

So it's not a five credits per book meeting. Think that would be unfortunately too good to be 
true.

Then let's see.

Does that mean if we use AI Sales agent, we don't have to use Super Search to find emails, 
verify and Rich Profile?

No, it does it automatically for you and it charges the same credits. Right.



So the credits that you're using now for SuperSearch, it uses them for the AI sales agent. But 
no.

Exactly.

You don't have to go into supersearch, find the emails and drop them into the AI sales agent.

You just tell the AI sales agent, this is who I want to go after, or this is my business.

AI Sales agent tells you who you should be going after and it does all of that for you.

Then Andrew's asking, does this also work with LinkedIn outreach? Not for now.

We do have those integrations, as you are probably aware of, with Heyreach, AIM Forks and 
Valley, but unfortunately those aren't in here yet.

Then again, this is still the first launch of the AI Sales agent with many more new launches 
yet to come.

Then excuse me, what if I have a companion process which is my first one?

Would I just start a new campaign? Yes. So it's not able to take over existing campaigns.

Just go ahead and start a new campaign with a sales agent then.

Dane, distracted by the Pokeball extension. Yeah, I'm a big fan of the. Of that scraper.

If you don't know what it is, then shoot me a dm. Does each rep have their own AI sales 
agent?

Or how does this distribute the leads across the company? It's pro Workspace.

Now, if you go under settings and then under accounts to use, then you could for example, 
say, okay, this sales agent gets these accounts from rep number one.

Let's call them John. Right. So AI Sales agent, you name it.

John gets all the accounts from John and maybe gets his territory as well.

Then, you know, Caroline, Caroline, you get, you know, you set up your inboxes with Sales 
Agent 2 and then that is all for your ICP or for your territory, for example.



So you can set up different agents and then Give them different inboxes for the different, 
different reps that you have in your team.

I have. Let's see. Dennis, this might be a bit of a tricky question to answer on here. Let me 
see.

I have two email addresses warming up RTOB7 so you need help syncing instantly with 
Mailerlite? Yes.

So definitely reach out to support or check the Slack community that we have.

If you're not in there yet, check out the Slack community.

We have channels in there where you can ask your questions and we can jump in there and 
help you with your specific integration question.

Then can you add HTML email formats for the AI agent to send? Not currently.

You don't have now going back to deliverability, this is the control that you have over the 
emails.

We really fall back to let's say cold email best practices by saying we're going to try and 
send especially if you disable open tracking, send us plain text, text based op outs, opt out, 
not links, etc.

But, but we write the email so you cannot actually insert HTML or add images or any of that.

So that's not an option currently. Is this better than Apollo Donna? In my personal 
experience, yes.

Then again that's up to you to find out.

But definitely reach out if you want to do a full comparison we're happy to show you.

And in most cases the answer it depends.

It could be that you have a very very specific workflow that may be better with a different 
tool but generally speaking instantly is absolutely at the top of the food chain.

Then once our agent is live can we export CSV files of the emails found as records to track?

That is a great question. You can currently not export them.



You do have full insights and you can set up a webhooks for example where if you go to to 
automation integration you can set up webhooks there for now that there's honestly a real 
question because I tried it today I'm not 100% sure if that also gets the AI sales agent 
emails.

So that is a very good question that honestly I would have to answer later.

So if you don't mind shoot me a DM on LinkedIn I will ask the team and then I can answer 
that better for you.

You. That's a great question. Then Simon says my AI agent doesn't do the follow ups.

That is very very odd because there's not something I've heard before.

So definitely reach out in the chat or in the Slack community better in the chat usually 
because then the support team can directly look into your workspace into your account and 
see what might be going on.

It could be that maybe your your inboxes aren't connected or showing an error.

So first look at your email accounts and if all looks fine there definitely reach out.

We'll get you sorted then how does it send emails on autopilot?

It just does it use your inboxes and just automatically sends the emails for you just like an AI
agent then.

So other metrics that I have to know so I can know how good or bad are my campaigns.

Definitely check out our cold email benchmark report and you can use that for 
benchmarking.

So that is if you go to Instantly AI and then in the main navigation you can see they're called 
email benchmark report.

Then will there be a teams integration? What about bidirectional sync with HubSpot?

We already have Bisenc with HubSpot as far as I know that sort of goes back to the question 
earlier.

As far as I know that currently doesn't cover the AI sales agent but definitely reach out on 
LinkedIn because I'm going to ask the team about this after we jump off here just to make 
sure that you know that, that I'm fixing to get my knowledge.



But if it's, you know, if you, if you're talking about instantly.

Generally speaking we already have hospital integration as well. Webhooks, zapier, all of 
that.

So you're able to solve most of your sync and integration issues.

Then when it comes to AI sales agent, I will figure it out for you.

Then other integrations are being asked. We're adding integration at a very, very rapid 
speed.

So definitely stay tuned for other integrations.

Then Sean's asking, can you configure the leads, find it to a specific territory only? Yes, you 
can.

You can do that based on geographic targeting.

So jump into Supersearch and see what you have available there.

When it comes to the different, you know, geographic targets you can do per city, per, you 
know, per region etc, so have a look at that and what you see in there is what the AI sales 
agent has access to as well then so you've connected on LinkedIn that's good.

I appreciate that. When we get a copy of this recording. Yes, I see you're watching it on 
LinkedIn.

Just when this event finishes, it will be right then and there on LinkedIn and then soon also 
instantly AI Academy then this is my first time tuning in.

I appreciate it. Theresa, how do I get started?

Head over to Instantly AI and sign up there or book a demo and if you want to start learning 
for yourself, head over to Insulator AI Academy and you can just get started learning about 
code outbound and you can actually get started on the right foot then.

Has anyone tried instantly reach out to PI attorneys?

I personally haven't but Instantly has thousands and thousands of users so I'm confident 
people have.



Then can we manually upload a list of leads? Not for the time being.

Do you need to set AI reply agent at the same time too for to follow up? No.

So that is let's say baked into the whole experience. So that is.

It's a package deal, let's put it that way. So just end to end management. So reply for you.

How much will it cost in dollars, not tokens?

That depends on how many tokens or credits you're buying.

If you're buying more credits then the per credit price goes down.

So then naturally the price, the dollar price of it goes down as well.

So definitely check out Instantly AI slash pricing and you can have a look for yourself then 
does instantly AI sales agent only pull Google MX record emails?

I'm not 100% sure what you mean by that, so yeah, reach out to me and clarify that for me.

If you wouldn't, I'll be very happy to answer. Then where are the emails sent out from?

The idea is that you either add your own email account or accounts or. Or you buy them 
from us.

That way you protect your main domain and those email accounts.

Those will be used to actually send the emails and the AI agent will manage everything end 
to end for you.

Then can you run outreach for multiple companies through one account?

Yes, because it is like the memory is per agent. Right.

So if we're quickly going back to the first setup, we dropped an Instantly I as a domain that 
is one agent.

So that is you know the instantly the AI sales agent.

You can then just add, you know Microsoft.com and that is the Microsoft.com AI sales agent 
and so on.



So yes, that works.

Just make sure that when you go to settings and accounts to use that is using the right 
accounts.

Then does 5 credits include the email information? Yes, that includes everything.

Then can we get the list of leads to using all the platforms to reinforce the outreach as in 
multi channel outreach?

Not currently, but again we do have that already into our platform.

So to add that to the AI sales agent isn't a huge step and definitely something that we're 
investigating.

We don't have a timeline for it yet unfortunately.

I mean Instantly Vip this is already being used now. You get the VIP service.

That means that we have our GTM engineers actively managing your accounts.

So you get something even better, which is, you know, highly trade humans actually using it 
then looks very promising.

Leads count seems a little low.

That's because it's the first in that, you know, first initial learning phase and it's just a quick 
demo.

We have users sending hundreds or thousands of leads or emails with this per week.

Then we've not at the conference instantly alone could cover our leads needs.

Then we have millions, hundreds of millions of leads in the database.

So it really just depends on who you're targeting.

If you're targeting someone, an ICP that's very specific, it might be a different conversation.

But if you're saying hey we can target fairly broadly, then instantly can very, very likely help
you definitely reach out for a demo.

And then we can just quickly run through your ICP and actually, you know, look at some 



numbers and I'm confident we're able to help you.

Then can the agent write in different languages? Not currently.

You can try that with, you know, with a different, you know, instructions.

But for now English is the main supported language.

Then can instantly scrape data from person's website or write personalized emails?

Yes, that's exactly what it does. Then do you need to set AI place? I already answered that 
one.

No, that is actually baked into it. If the leads are not relevant, can we delete them? Not for 
now.

However, you can adjust all the targeting.

So if we go back to customer profiles here and you look at the icp, so you can just really, you 
know, tweak this and most of all tweak, this is where we can start, you know, excluding 
keywords, titles, all of that.

And then it will just really get you a very, very targeted icp.

Meaning that the leads will in, I'm not going to say in all cases, but in most cases be very, 
very relevant.

Then what if you want to send them straight through to self service sign up then you can 
add that under guidance here and you can say always make the CTA about signing up at the 
website XYZ.com for example.

Then does the AI sales agent come with the growth plan? It comes with every plan.

It just uses create credit. So whichever plan you're on, you can use the AI sales agents.

Then what are the data providers with which you partner?

Spartan Waterfall Enrichment we have a lot from find email to contact out to Lead Magic to 
our own email finder.

So we have a lot.

You can add your own API keys, you can set up different ones, you can change the order.



So have a look at Supersearch. We have a lot of different integrations.

Can I bring my enrich list with custom emails from Vibe prospecting?

Not for a time being, unfortunately, but you can obviously add those in your normal 
campaigns.

You can then ask Copilot to write a sequence for you, or you can import them into Super 
Search and then use the AI write email function to write a personalized email to every single
lead there.

So just quickly circling back to all the people asking them to bring my own leads.

Add your own leads to Super Search, Use the AI email writer so that it will write emails for 
every single prospect and then it's turn on the reply agent and that way you can contact 
your own leads.

It's not the.

It's not the same experience, but it will get the job done and it's, you know, as close as it gets
to this whole full autopilot experience.

Then let's see.

Are the agents that the agent find the leads that the agent find the same as super shirts? 
Exactly.

Those are the same ones. Then let's see. Right.

So Matt, monetary cost, that depends on how many credits you're buying.

So just have a look at the pricing page, see how many credits you want to buy and then let's 
say the, the token value changes based on how many you buy.

Then it is better than a day at the park. The good thing is you can have both, right?

You set it up and then you go to the park. So let's see. I see multiple people.

So does that mean all the emails are going to sound exactly the same?

Right, so no is the straightforward answer there.



Just because the context for every lead is very different.

So Louis, you said okay, spoke with a prospect, booked a meeting.

A prospect showed me an email exactly the same with the same subject line.

I would love to investigate that because having the exact same email from different 
outbound teams is extremely hard.

So if not impossible.

So I would really like to dig into that and investigate that because that's very odd to me.

So shoot me screenshots. Happy to have a look at it.

But no, just because every context for every lead is different and we use the same structure 
for emails.

But no, if company A is reaching out to leading, company B is reaching out to a lead, it will 
look different just because what you're selling is not the same as what someone else is 
selling.

So unless there's no. Unless there's, There's.

The emails will not be the same simply because it always writes new emails for every 
prospect the context for every prospect different and the context for what you and your 
business do, that's different as well.

Then so what the credit costs 5 credits per lead and complete sequence.

Then see last couple of questions and then we have to start putting an end to this.

So do we still have to set up each email box for outbound email campaigns first before using 
the tool?

It does need email inboxes.

You could say I'm going to use instantly done for you email accounts and then you don't 
have to do any setup and it was automatically select them.

Or you can set up your own email inboxes and add them to the Insta platform. Both work.

I definitely recommend going with, you know, I Recommend Going with Dom4You.



So how do we get access to AI sales agents? Is that the AI agents tab? Yes.

So you go to AI agents here, then add new and then AI sales agent. That is the one.

Then if you don't see the live feed etc, then it might still be populating.

So just give it a second and then you should be able to see all that. If not yet, then reach out.

But that should populate in just a second. Excuse me. Then you're welcome.

William and Orissa then William. So another question about the context.

Just definitely, you know, upload them into, add them to a list within the super search tab 
and then have AI write emails and add them to a campaign.

You don't need the sales agent for that because you have the reply agent to do that for you.

Then let me see. A lot of thumbs up like good, someone joined late. So that is five credits per.

Then let's see.

And then Lima Don, I think this question right here and then that is probably the last 
question I'm taking because I think this question covers the other questions very well.

So about editing prospects for now, everything is, you know, end to end, let's say done for 
you now at the time there's no, there's no way to edit what is going out.

But if you know, you're looking at the initial emails, at the first emails and you're not a big 
fan, then definitely go under, you know, memory and guidance and add some guidance 
there.

Say, okay, I want the emails to be a bit shorter, a bit longer, mention this or don't mention 
that.

So you can, you definitely have influence over the general guidance on how things are being 
written.

So if you know, if you have internal writing guidelines, then definitely add them in here and 
then it will pick up on that and use that to influence the emails that are being written now, it
doesn't like.

We still use a lot of our own guardrails and frameworks just to make sure that, you know, 



we write solid emails and nothing breaks.

But you're able to influence how everything is being written.

So definitely have a look at that and hopefully that is helpful.

And then, Robert, will there be recording of this presentation? Yes.

So I see you're watching this on LinkedIn.

The moment I close this live stream, which will be in about a minute or two, then just wait a 
second and then you will have the replay right then and there in the LinkedIn event, it will 
also be on instantly AI Academy, where you can learn more about AI agents and everything 
else that we do instantly, as well as call outreach.

And if you're watching this on YouTube, the same goes. You will catch it on YouTube.

So I hope that was helpful.

I see some people asking about, let's see, you know, like a little love from the support team, 
definitely.

So I think you, you asked earlier about, you know, the lead count, reach out to support or 
drop something in Slack or shoot me your, your, let's say, ICP requirements and I can have a 
quick look within super search.

And then if you're saying, okay, we're definitely a little bit more niche now, that's something
that's definitely worth, you know, worth looking into and seeing how well the coverage is 
there.

For now, the support team hopefully can help you and if not, shoot me a message on 
LinkedIn.

We can have a look. Thanks very much for tuning in.

My apologies again for the excessive coughing and sneezing. But I hope you learned 
something.

I hope you're able and excited to set up your first AI sales agent that actually does outreach 
for you.

Someone asked if it's better than a day in the park.



The best thing is, as I said, you can have both. You can set this up.

There's no more babysitting your campaigns. There's no more thinking, oh, are we actually 
sending.

There's no more, oh, I need to add new leads to my campaigns. There's no more.

Okay, what's working, what isn't. There's all that for you off the shelf, out of the box.

It will run your outbound for you and you can either go to the park, go fishing, or actually 
run your business and not be worried about outbound, about results.

So everyone, thanks for joining.

For more learnings, for more webinars, for more live sessions, definitely check out Instantly
AI Academy.

You can see a lot more from me if that's what you're looking for.

But most of all, you can learn a lot about instantly about cold reads for now.

Thanks everyone very much for watching and I will see you in the next stream. Bye bye.