Are you the bottleneck in your business right now? If you want to learn how to scale your 
business and when to hire, how much to pay, what to do before you even hire, and then 
what kind of processes to put in place to make sure that your next hire is going to be super 
productive.

Comment pod and I'll make sure to send you this episode. If it's on the list, it gets done. No 
matter how you feel, no matter how busy you are, no matter what's going on, this single 
mindset shift could be responsible for you scaling your business beyond anything you've 
ever thought.

Today in the podcast, I talked to my buddy Nate, who's put millions of dollars in his pipeline
in the last couple of weeks. And we talk about where he's getting stuck and how a lot of it 
right now is that he's still doing a lot of the activities himself. We talk about four key things.

One of them is like, when to hire, like what he needs to do next, how he's going to get back 
some additional time before this hire even gets here. We talk about a daily practice that he's 
going to put into place in order to make his hire easier, but also his current pipeline easier.

And it's just a fantastic. And we talk about compensation around underwriting and how to 
create something that's going to be a win for the long term. I think you're really going to 
enjoy this conversation. Hey, before I jump into that, I want to give a shout out to our 
sponsor, Omwell.

Omwell is an amazing tool for Canadian mortgage brokers. They obviously create these 
reports that show home equity and buying power, which is great. But more recently they've 
added some cool features.

Being that it's because it's got all your database info, it's always looking for opportunities to 
save money for your clients. And so for instance, it'll run and somebody, if you have a 
database in there, it'll find every opportunity that someone has.

It does the math for you and then even creates the templates and emails that you can send 
out to your database. And these have been working like crazy for brokers. Check them out at
Ohmwell CA and check out this conversation with Nate. Hey, Nate, welcome back.

Hey, Scott, glad to be back.

So, hey, I always love to start these conversations off with a pipeline update and then a 



check in on the stuff that we had talked about from our last episode.

Amazing. Yeah, let's do that for sure. So last time we chatted, I was getting into, I think it was
end of January, I believe, and it was kind of a little bit of a slow start to the year. So I've been 
focusing on this underwriting hiring and I noticed myself, I peeled back a little bit.

I think I kind of took a step back to be able to take a step forward. But the last couple of 
weeks have been super busy. I'm grateful, very grateful. Everything else that we. All the 
weeds we planted started to come through.

So right now we're at about $6 million closed and another two and a half million have been 
approved with 1.1 sitting in broker complete. And I have about $11 million in pre approvals 
right now. 11.1 Million in pre approvals and we've got 9 million in apps received.

Of course, those last two may not go anywhere, but the pipeline looks a lot stronger than it 
did last time we chatted.

Right. Amazing. And so last time we chatted, we really dove into hiring and underwriting. So
how is that whole process going?

It's going great. You know, I noticed after we chatted a little bit, I had to take a step back and
look at some other things that I know are involved behind the scenes that we don't always 
talk about on the show.

And that is like, things like how it's gonna be structured, how are you gonna deal with them 
on the payroll side, tax side, talk to my CPA about it. So I had to go back and it's perfect 
timing because I was just.

I am still in the process of wrapping up my 2025 taxation year for my companies and so 
spoke to my accountant about that, made sure that I understand the exact structure that this
employee needs to sit in before we move forward and hire them. So I've done that, that'.

And now I'm able to give the HR company the complete blessing to go ahead and get this 
done. So I think my target goal of April 30, having them onboarded is probably going to be 
realistic.

Right. And that's also usually in line with when the market, when we get a little bit busier 
too, when things thaw out a little, typically, April starts to get bit. April, May, June, it picks 
up. So it, you know, the only, the only downside to that is that there's not time to get them 
integrated.

But you'll, you're, you'll, You've got lots of. You'll be able to make that work either way.



Well, you know, what I have noticed is that, you know, so of course, naturally we know this, 
but to see it in principle, it reinforces it again and again. And that's that being kind of the 
one man show that I kind of am for the most part really, you know, I've been super busy.

I just told you about my pipeline. You can imagine that's pretty well one person doing all 
that. So of course the tasks that are that, that I need to do that are part of my business 
development, of course take a little bit, a little bit of a backseat because I'm doing everything
else.

So hence the importance again reinforced of having this person in that role taking care of all
these things so that I can continue with business development, pipeline flow and all that 
stuff. Right.

So again it just, it can, the cycle continues and it's in your face all the time as a, as an 
entrepreneur that you do need to continue to delegate and grow or else you're.

Just going to be stuck. Okay, so how do you like, given that you've got this massive pipeline 
that you've been building even without a ton of help, how do you manage your day? Like 
walk me through.

I'm interested to know what you're doing because I would say no, I like I've known you for 
quite a while now but you have a lot of, you know, you've got other businesses and you're, 
you're very disciplined. So how are you running your day to be able to even.

Because some people I can tell you would be right now would be overwhelmed even with 
where you're at currently, let alone when you continue to grow.

It's, it's definitely very, very fixed discipline, blocked times where I have particular tasks 
that are non negotiables that get done. We talked about it kind of a little bit previously. I 
think maybe on the first episode I'll elaborate on it a little bit whereby, you know, I get up in
the morning.

My non negotiables always start with things like the stuff that are in my personal life that I 
have to do right when I get up in the morning. So you know, skipping ahead of what I 
actually do when I get into bed.

But pretty well working out is always first get that done over with, finish really early and 
then it's, and then it's always, unless it's pretty well always straight to my office where I get 
right into.

I have some touch points I make with, you know, it's kind of like how Dustin Woodhouse 
talks about his 10 at 10. I do that right at first thing in the morning way of my touch points 
where I reach out to realtors partners right away and I have that period of time where I get 



that done.

Like before I touch any files, the lead gen, lead flow activities always get done first because 
without those there will be no work. So that's always non negotiable. That gets done every 
day. And this is, this is a hummingbird mortgages work always.

My hummingbird mortgages is priority that gets taken care of first thing in each day. You 
know, so, so that's always done first. Then if there are active files that need to be taken care 
of. So you know, we talked previously about fires, things like that.

There are, there are things that need to be done. Those get taken care of immediately 
following that. And I have no gap. Like I don't. There's no gaps in my day. There's no, there's 
not a second that's wasted. I'm not.

You don't, you won't find me going through my phone looking at shit throughout the course 
of the day.

It's just work, work, work, work.

Right. So from lead gen lead flow, it's right into.

And then you schedule spontaneous time. You're the kind of spontaneous time between 
2:45 and 3:00pm and then it's never done. Spontaneous. I'm just kidding.

That's so funny. It's so true too. How sad is that? But it's. Yeah, it's like really essentially non 
negot.

But you are very disciplined and I know there's going to be some people go, oh, I'm not that 
disciplined. So I guess the overall skill, what I think you're talking about is that you 
prioritize your prospecting and then the secondary thing is then you get into file stuff.

Yeah. And it's blocking. It's. These are time blocks essentially. Of course they, you know, 
they're not to the second every day. You don't just. The clock doesn't stop, you know, stop if 
you're working on something. But yeah, they're time blocks. Those activities get done every 
day actually.

So I know that this will air later but you know, today being March 18th, I went for a jog this 
morning and I put as on my tag on. There was. If it's on the list, it gets done. That's all it says.

Yeah.

Like it doesn't matter how you feel. If it's on the list, it gets done. This shit is on my list. 
Every day it gets done. That's just the reality.



You ever not feel like it?

Yeah, every day. Every day. I never.

But okay, so. But then again, I know how you're wired and I'm. There's. If there's degrees to 
this, like, there's, like, if it's a dial, right? Like, people are disciplined. Is not. You're not. It's 
not binary 0 or 1. Nobody's ever 100% it's a dial. But you are if the dial is not.

If it's up to, you know, 100, you're up in the 90s percentile. I'm pretty high up there too, but 
not. I don't think I'm that high.

Well, you're, you're mixing two things there. You're talking the differences between. You're 
mixing emotion in with things that need to get done. Like, here's the truth. It's kind of like 
eating right. It's kind of like, oh, well, you know, I want a brownie, but I know I shouldn't 
have it.

I'd rather. I know I should probably have that chicken breast instead. Well, I, I would rather 
have the pizza than the chicken breast, but it doesn't matter what I want. It matters what 
needs to get done. The same thing goes for this with work, if it's on the list.

Were you, were you like that when you were a kid?

No, absolutely not.

When, when did this, when did this shift happen for you? Was there a certain. Did it happen 
gradually or. I'm curious, it's been an evolution, but.

I think that I was definitely not like this at all for many of my younger years. You know, I just
dabble it in a little bit, I think, like everybody. And then I think that it's a, it's a maturation 
level whereby I've gone through.

I've gone through different evolutions of successes and failures in business and in life in 
general. And then once you get to a point, I think potentially could be an age thing, could be 
just going through businesses that have failed, succeeded, failed, succeeded.

You get to a point where you realize, you know, what needs to get done to succeed. It's like, 
if this is what success looks like way over here, I know it needs to get done between here 
and there.

So I take all the emotion, throw it in the garbage, and I just work towards the success 
because I know what it's going to take, whether I feel like it or not. That's just it.



Right? And you built that. Right. And you've also built that in your training. I mean, that's 
one of the great parts about physical training, is that it helps you with all. Like I was reading 
about in Charles Duhigg book the Power of Habit, he talks about keystone habits.

And the keystone habit is that you make one Choice on a habit. And it affects. So people who 
exercise typically start eating healthier, even though it's not part. It's just natural. And then 
they also show up at work differently.

And so it's amazing how this one keystone habit, you know, I, I would say the discipline that 
you've developed from your physical training has very much applies to your business work 
as well.

The correlation between sports, physical activity and discipline, let's just say working out, I 
don't care if you run, swim, whatever, workout.

Yeah, whatever your thing is between that.

And your success in business as an entrepreneur, as an entrepreneur, as an employee, 
whatever it is, there's a direct correlation there. I've seen it a thousand times in studies. I 
don't care what anyone says because of the discipline factor.

That's why my buddy of mine who owns a real estate team, we're good friends, we always 
talk about how, pardon me, hiring athletes is all. Is almost always a good idea because they 
have a level of discipline that they know how to turn off the emotion and stick to the 
discipline because.

They had to do stuff that they never wanted, they didn't want to do emotionally, but did it 
anyway. Right.

Discomfort and resilience. Yeah.

Yeah. Okay. What do you think is your biggest constraint right now? So that we've got the 
underwriting thing in the works. You've got a plan on that. We can talk if you want about 
compensation ideas, but what do you think is the biggest constraint that you're facing?

I would like to go there next for sure. The compensation. I think I got some questions on that
that would help me and help the listeners substantially. But the biggest constraint right now
is definitely the fact that here's this gap that we're facing.

The whole, the whole part of this, part of the hundred million dollar journey series is this 
underwriting hiring portion. I'm so excited to see how this changes.

When I'm able to offload and delegate all of this work, this massive chunk that I'm doing, 



you know, essentially, I mean, really, I don't know how to equate a percentage to it, but if we
were to say, 60% of my workload, if you will, if I can just take that and hand it over to 
somebody and, and, and then be able to delegate and be able to designate all that time now 
to the continued development growth lead gen, then I just think that that right there will 
just open up a massive flow that you never know.

I may, we may be down, coming down a road a little bit further where I need to hire 
somebody else. Because I do have the ab. Generate a substance.

Because what you're good at is the lead gen and the, you know, pipeline. Building the 
pipeline. What. So do you have. What do you have for help right now? Remind me and the 
listeners. What do you have anybody helping you at all with, like, documents or what is 
there any part of it?

Are you doing all of it right now?

Very, very, very little. I have someone that does a little bit of fulfillment, but for the most 
part it's pretty well me, myself and I. I do want to. That does lead me into one other question
for you that I have, and that's this. And I know that this will help.

Like, I think I know the answer to it, but I think it'll help me hear it again. And other people 
listening here, we have this problem as type A professional entrepreneurs and also people 
who build success, we have this feeling like we think that we. Only one person can do that, 
and that's us, right?

Or no one can do it like us. So I think it would be advantageous to hear a little bit from your 
words on getting over that mindset of, let's say, for example, right now, like, I'll give you a 
perfect example.

I had a talk yesterday with a couple that I helped them get them into a place that they're 
extremely happy. And they. We had talk and they were like, oh my gosh, Nate, like, you are 
like, thank you so much. I can't even begin to tell you how my last broker was a nightmare.

And, you know, you got to this place, et cetera. And of course, we think instincts really. Can 
anybody. Is there. Is there going to be somebody else that can do it like. Like I do or the way 
that I do or take care of it the way that I do.

And I think that can be a little bit of a, you know, a mindset that can hold us back sometimes 
from hiring, delegating and letting other people in. Can you kind of elaborate a little bit on 
how we can get around that mindset as, you know, as an entrepreneur trying to grow?

Yeah. So well. And I've. I've gone through this phase and I. Even still, it's still, it's.



It's more insidious the bigger your business gets because you still start to think, like, for, 
you know, there's certain parts of the business that I still think I need to do, but I'm 
discovering that it's not the case.

I'm discovering that someone else with the right set of tools and especially with AI tools and
they can actually do Parts of my job for me, better than me, because it's so consistent. Right. 
And there was. There's. There's a. I'm trying to think of the guy's name.

It was a painter back in the 1800s who was. And I'll. Maybe I'll look it up after and share in 
the intro. But his whole thing was he really. He painted portraits and he was prolific. He 
painted like thousands of portraits compared to most people. It's very difficult.

Portraits are very time consuming. And what he realized is, is that the only thing that people
really cared about on the portrait was the face. Because if I'm getting my portrait done, I 
want the face to be good, the rest of it.

So what he would do is he would paint the face and he had an army of painters. This is like, 
you know, so clever. That would paint the background of the body because they didn't care 
about the hands in the background. But if you're a painter and you're.

And the people are paying for the face in the mortgage business, I think it's very much the 
same. It's like there is a part of this process that they need. They need to know that Nate 
was part of it, and there's a whole bunch of it they don't care about. And as long as that.

Because that's the piece they're going to remember and that's the piece they're going to pay 
for with their, you know, their. Their referrals. And so I think it's the same.

Yeah. You know what my discovery call is Nate 101 massive value. Like, I. That's it.

But don't give that away. That would be like. That would be. Unless that was not. You know, 
But I would suspect if you gave that away, you would. That would be where you'd. You'd 
potentially kill your business. But the.

Almost everything else could be done by someone else and they're not going to care. Plus, I 
love doing that and support you're the best at. So it's like this is the part they want. They 
want to have. I want to feel like he understands me, you know, and back to when you start 
handing this stuff off.

If you're recording all these calls, which you should be. You can get AI summaries of 
everything you talked about. So your assistant can jump in and be like, okay, all right. Nate 
said this, this, this, this. Like, there's no. You don't have to even hardly take notes. Notes will 
be done for you.



This is. Didn' exist when I started. But you all your notes and everything can be there. Give it
to them. They can. They now know what to go with that file. If they have questions, of 
course they talk to you. And so what I would do is I, I would not give up the discovery call.

But everything else beyond that would be pieces that I'm willing to hand off because that's 
where you really build that trust. And they go, I want to work with you. Otherwise, 
everything else is like, you know, and you'll know. Yeah. So that, that's what I would. I 
would.

That's why I think anybody listening to this, there's only one piece where that matters.

Thank you. Yeah, you answered that perfectly. That's. That's. That's a great way to look at it 
where it's kind of like, okay, you know, you're still there. You're still handling the most 
important mark. But the. The documents, the back end, the stuff, that's not something that.

It's not like no one can do it like you. Right. Okay.

And I'll give you some other tips on working with someone in order to prevent you.

You have to frame them as better at the other part than you because they're going to know 
the difference is when this guy had faces painted, I don't think that customers knew that it 
was a bunch of, like, student painters painting the hands and body and background, but they
also didn't care.

But in our business, it's a little different when you know, if you've got Sally working for you 
and she reaches out to the client, they're like, who the hell is Sally? So a couple things on this
one, you've always got to make sure there's an introduction. So just. And how you frame 
that.

The really good mortgage brokers frame their people as better at that job than them.

Got it.

Right. And you know this already instinctively. But you'd say something like, okay, you 
know what? So you know, Nate, really looking forward to working with you. Next step is 
this. We're going to get some app. My. I got a document specialist. This girl knows 
documents back better than me.

Like, she knows them. And she's going to reach out to you and make sure that we have 
everything we need so that I can put the strategy in place. So I'm going to. I'm not never 
going to refer them to as my assistant or.

Because nobody wants to feel like they're getting relegated to a second class, you know, 



somebody who's not going to help them. So you always got to upsell the. On the handoff to 
the person that's picking it up, whether it's your document or your underwriter person. You
know, my.

And on the underwriter side, it could be something like, hey, you know, just, you know, my 
whole job is to come up with a strategy. My underwriter is an absolute wizard at making. 
Navigating the lender side of it, and they work on that side.

I make sure I work with you, dude, that we hit the right strategy. They go, okay, great. They 
have trust there. That's. So that. That would be one of the key things to having a good 
working relationship with your underwriting partner or your team. And then. So the 
communication piece.

And then there was another thought I had there, and I lost it. But it'll come back to me, I'm 
sure. I've probably said this kind of thing before, but I feel like that's the. One of the key 
things you have to do well is in the handoff and that it doesn't feel like you're. You're.

Because here's the reality is. And I've seen. This is a mistake I've seen brokers make is that 
they hire somebody to do the part they hate, but then they talk about it like it's somehow. 
It's a negative thing. Right. It's like, oh, nobody's going to want to do this because, like, I hate
it.

It's like, no, no, that's not true. There are people there that love it and that will be thrilled to 
do the part of the job you don't. That you. And if you. But you want to, when you're hiring, 
looking for someone, look for somebody who gets lit up by the part that you don't get lit up 
by.

Yes.

And. And I think you know that that'll help you with selection around this person. But, yeah, 
dude, I'm excited. Oh, the other thing I thought I had. I did have another thought is that, I 
mean, even between now and when this.

Because you said 40, 60% of your work, I think you will eventually get 60%. The problem is,
is that it's going to be a. The process is going to be very slow. It's going to be 20% and then 
30 and 4, and like, it's a dial.

It's like saying, hey, Scott, if I came to you and said, hey, Nate, I want to have 11% body fat, 
you'd be like, okay, brother, you can do it. Here's what you're gonna have to do. And you.

And you can absolutely do it the next year, but you're gonna have to do These things and it's
never gonna happen in a healthy way.



Great analogy. I've heard a couple of those people lately. That's a great analogy. I love that.

Yeah. So that, so this is the same thing. You're not going to get to 60%. I guess don't think 
initially it's going to be more work, not less because you're going to still be doing the job. 
And so there's that piece. So what, here's what I would say. And that's probably, let's say 
you hire them.

Would you say April 30th? So they're gonna. So then they'd be starting in May. If it was me, I
would look at getting some sort of a short term solution. Now that's helping you with 
compliance and document signing packages and stuff. If you don't have that, because that is 
going to be.

Not go away for a while, you probably got a few more months. You probably got four 
months of that. And if you had some sort of person in between that, even as a contract basis 
where you pay per file, knowing that maybe that gets swallowed up by your underwriter at 
some point.

But it will, it will be the, you can buy back 20 of your time right now with, you know, or 15 
that you can then use to train that person. And also can you.

Because when they come on, there's an initial, you're going to have a, you're going to be 
going backwards a little bit and so build in that buffer before you have to go back. That's 
what I would say is that. Have some kind of help there so that you're not that.

Because yeah, my, my concern is, is that you'll be like, oh my God, Scott, I'm trying to train 
this person and prospect and, and, and it's like, it's a lot of outstanding, you know, and then 
that other person can take that, the other tasks eventually.

But they, those, those tasks that you can outsource, I would do those sooner. Love that.

That reminds me, people love when you go down this road a little bit. That reminds me of 
people who come to me and ask me about a lean bulk. I want to do a lean bulk. And I'm like, 
okay, yeah, let's take, let's take a step back here a little bit here. Take a step back here.

What does that mean?

That's my company's lean bulk you just gave me. That's perfect.

Yeah. So for anybody who's not a fitness person, maybe explain what you mean by a lean 
ball lean bulk.

Someone's Every man on Earth and they want to. They're always like, what's their goal? 
Like, so people come to me and ask me for fitness advice. They want to know, like, hey, Nate,



I want to know. I say, okay, what's the goal? They, I want to lean bulk.

And I'm like, do you understand the fact that first off, a lean bulk is like two opposite things?
So if you're. You're either going to bulk or you're going to cut, right? Like, for you to, like, 
grow lean bulk means that you're going to put on just lean muscle only.

So I sometimes say to people, it's possible, like, I can do it, but you have to be starting at the 
place that is such a perfect place because you've got an extraordinary amount of fitness 
knowledge and experience to be able to balance your nutrition and your exercise, to be able 
to only put on lean muscle only like, without any fat.

Right. And so when people say they want to lean bulk, I'm always. Okay, let's take a step 
back here for a second. So it's kind of like me saying.

To you, that's exactly what you're doing. You're wanting to lean here, Scott, right?

Whoa.

Yes. You'll get there, brother. But it's like, it is exactly. It's you. It's a. It's like saying, I want to
make double the money and I want to work half as long. It's all. Yes, great.

Yeah.

But you're not going to do both at the same time. You're going to have to pick, build the 
business up and then slowly, you know, hire to. To take. Get your time back. But so I. You're 
totally right. I think that's a. That's a perfect.

This is the episode of the Lean Bulk.

We got the name of the Lean Bulk.

Yes.

It's brought to you by Creatine or.

Yeah, even better. Love it. Beautiful.

Okay, so do you want to chat about. So do we talk about compensation in terms of.

We, we. We. We started because you talked to your.

Accountant and so maybe give me some. You're, you know, whatever you're comfortable 
sharing around what your accountant had suggested.



Simple. Just the way that the payroll is going to be structured under CRA and corporate, you 
know, RC number and how we're going to be able to be paying them that simple stuff like, 
like the things I'm going to be required on payroll side of things. That's simple.

It's more about, I think, the value that. What I would gain and the listeners would gain here. 
Would be a little bit of a. To elaborate a little. We talked briefly about compensation and 
how it can be structured and packaged previously. But I think to dive a little bit deeper into 
just specifically.

So, for example, what I'm thinking about is, you know, base salary and then additional 
compensation. I know that, you know, we were openly talking about how like Denise has 
structured this really well and other people that you know quite well where there's a 
component of.

Maybe bonus, a component of some kind of share, if you will, depending on how you want to
define that. But just to get your insight on how that might be the most advantageous. Where,
for example, I don't want to hire, you know, somebody that's a. Just a contractor that 
whatever.

They're not connected. I wanna. I want this to be a cultural thing whereby they're. They feel 
part of the family and they're growing with the growth of the company and we do this 
together and they get all the benefit of the growth.

So how would you recommend that kind of be structured in that regard?

Well, what you're referring to is. I've heard it called before like a missionary versus a 
mercenary. Right. A missionary mercenary is there for the dollars only. And a missionary is 
there because they get the same vision as you. And so. But the way to do that is they gotta.

They've got to get a benefit of the upside. So I. I like the idea of a base salary, anybody that 
is, if they're too incentivized in the other way. It's not as I. I think they can be make them. It 
can be problematic. But when I think I've talked about in other episodes. But. So if you.

Let's say you set a base out, whatever that is. And then I would set a minimum threshold for 
target of profit for the business. And so if the business. Because I've seen.

And Denise has told me this before and other people is that they've had pay structure set up
where they're paying out bonuses, but the company's not actually making money because 
it's based on file count, because it's based on volume, but they've bought down rates.

They paid for legal fees, they paid for appraisals. And so by the time all the, you know, 
everything shakes out, the owner is not making money. And. But the. The people working 



there are getting. And they don't know that though. The reality is that the employees. It's 
not the employee's fault.

It's not like they, They. I don't think that it's just that they don't realize that. So that's why 
you need to base it on some sort of a profit threshold, minimum threshold for target profit.

Okay, got that.

Yeah. And anything below that, you should be profitable. Like we've done the same thing 
with the brokers. We have a minimum threshold for profit and we don't pay it. We call it, we
don't call it profit share because profit share assumes that it's like all profit. We do gain 
share.

So we've got a minimum threshold of profit. And then above that gain share is like it's 
anything above that number. We split the money a third to employees, a third to owners 
equity and the third to growth. And so. And the more they can grow that the more they can 
make.

And then if you're going to A great way to. We hired a coach, we spent a lot of money on this 
coach, but it was absolutely worth it because it was complex.

But I'll, I'll give you the Cole's notes is you show them whatever that percent of their salary 
is, you show them what that is in days off the equivalent. And so right now, where I think 
we're. They're targeting about 28 days paid of. Equivalent of 28 days of pay.

So because you're like, oh my gosh, that's a lot of free, you know, a lot of days pay. And it is 
cash as well. Right. But it's, it, the, the key, the cool thing about that is that then they can 
actually see it because people, it's more granular.

It's sort of like talking about, you know, the, the monthly payment versus this. Oh, you're 
gonna save all this money. Well, what's my monthly payment? I care about that. It's like how
many. This is the equivalent of this many days off. And they go, oh, okay, that's cool.

So I, I like that we have that baked into our calculator. And then if they go way past it, you 
can increase it. Like, it's like, hey, it's a percentage. So like they, and then for us, we pay it 
out quarterly.

You got to have a long term, you got to balance this long term vision with incentives that are
not too far away. If they're too far away, people forget about them. And so we pay every 
quarter, we look at it every week.

And you don't have to do it weekly, but I would probably minimum every two weeks 
because the longer the cycle is that they can't. Correct. Right. And so you'd want to be. And it



doesn't need to be a long meeting it's like, here's where we're at, here's what we need to 
work on.

Because, like, what we do is we tie our KPIs. I had showed you our scoreboard a few 
minutes ago, but we tie our KPIs into that financials. And so if, if the financials look off, it's 
like, what are our KPIs? Tell us.

And so then you look at your KPIs, which are the things that are driving the business. And it 
could. Nate needs to do this many number of meetings, he needs to do this many. And if you 
see that number drop off, you're going to see it in the numbers, like just as sure as God made
little green apples.

And then you can show them. And then if there's things they need to do, they can, they can 
action those things. But I love that because then it creates this ownership mindset and 
incentivizes them to think like an owner.

And when Denise did this, like, all of a sudden they didn't pay for as many appraisals, didn't 
pay for as many legal fees because they were like, wait a second. But if it was just based on a
file count number or a volume number, they'd be like, oh, let's just get the deal done. I don't 
even care.

And so that's where you have to be. You have to be more strategic than that.

Brilliant. Love that so much. So we got base salary, we got gain share kind of tied to a 
minimum threshold topic, target profit. That's brilliant. I love that.

Yeah. And if you want to read a book, probably the best book on this topic. There's like Jack 
Stack wrote the original book. It's kind of hard to read, but it's, it's called get in the Game 
and it's tied to his series of books. And it's basically a story about a, a kid who takes over his 
dad's.

I think they're laundromats and his. The kid wants to change it to this, this model. And it's 
really. It just. He shows how he. Because part of it is educating people on the numbers too.

It's one thing to show them the numbers, but if they don't understand how their actions 
affect the numbers, they don't care. Right. And so I feel like that it's a great, it could be a 
good resource for anybody listening if they want to get into this, you know, into this type of 
structure.

What's the who. What's the author's name again?

I'll find it for you. It's. It's, it's basically a storybook model. Kind of like how get in the game.



Amazing.

That's great.

I love this. I'll find it right now extremely valuable the way that this is structured because 
nobody thinks about this and this is so smart. It's great. I love it. And then of course the KPIs
in the weekly or at least bi weekly meetings are essential to keep. Keep your finger on the 
pulse. Right.

Yeah, you see it all the time. So then. And it's called get in the game and how to create Rapid 
change and lasting results. And it's by Rich Armstrong and Steve Baker. And so these are 
guys who are coaches, I think of the. His whole model. And yeah, it's a, it's a.

To me, I would never run a business without this going forward. I'd never ever consider it 
because it's just that effective. Right.

That's great.

Yeah, check it out. Okay, so one of the things we want to chat about like before we like your 
pipeline is moving. You got this higher. I mean I, you don't have to. But dude, I'd encourage 
you to find some short term solution for some admin tasks.

Yeah, I do have that.

Yeah, yeah, yeah. So don't take, don't take that away yet then. So if you do have somebody in
place, then for sure or if they can expand a little bit, what you want to do is get some extra 
time so that you're able to put it into this new person as they come onboarded. Right. Yeah, 
very smart.

Love it. Brilliant. Yeah, that's great. I mean, in reality right now, where I am at this point in 
the year, the start is. Yeah. I mean it's. I could see how the importance of all that is because, 
you know, life's starting to get busy again.

We talked a little bit earlier about how, you know, I've got. And I like to, you know, my life is 
more than just work. Right, of course. So between working out and family and it's going to 
start getting busy for us right now. My son and his schedule in basketball and I'm very much
a part of it.

So, yeah, it's important that I'm able to effectively put systems in place so that life is still 
good and it's not just one thing, you know, multi dimensional. So this is fantastic advice. I 
love this so much.

I think that, I think that it'll be fun for us to carry this episode along throughout the course 



of the year because once I get the person hired we can talk about how the onboarding needs
to be done effectively.

But I could see quickly after that you would, you'll know around the corner more than I do, 
but quickly, probably soon around the corner after that, when I'm delegating all my time, 
that elite flow probably be looking at maybe the next. The next person or the next.

So then what I. Probably the next hire would be, you know, typically you can do it several 
different ways, but likely a fulfillment person. Because if you're depending on the skill of 
your underwriters, your underwriter is very skilled.

They're going to be the most expensive sort of, you know, team member you have, like the 
quarterback, if you will, on the, if you're the football. Football franchise and.

But getting them help so that they're able to focus strictly on moving files, solving file 
problems and then having somebody else that can, you know, gather stuff, clean it up. That's
typically what people, I see people do is they have you increase the capacity of an 
underwriter with.

And a lot of our lenders do this too.

It's, you know, chef, right? Like they're preparing everything so that the chef can do.

Chef, yeah, there you go. That's another way to think of it too. Cool. The other thing I would 
say is that I was, this is what I was going to say earlier, and I'd forgotten is that I've seen one
of the habits and maybe you do. This already is a daily pipeline review.

So you want to do a 15 minute pipeline review. And if you bake it into your business now, 
when you have your staff, you're going to do that with them. And what happens in that 
pipeline review.

And I've talked to people that, you know, $100 million plus producers, and they said this is 
one of the best things they did because it helped solve problems faster. So every day for 15 
minutes, it's like a standing meeting, okay, what files? Where are we at? Where are these 
files at?

And then they give you their prioritization for the day. And so they say, I'm going to do this, 
this and this. If nothing else gets done today, these three things get done. What'll happen is 
you'll quickly recognize how they prioritize. It's kind of like triaging patients at the doc.

And if they don't, if you, you can correct them if they're off track because you may realize, 
hey, no, we actually do them in the different order or don't forget to do. You got to order. If 
you don't order this appraisal, we're in big.



Like this file is the subject to financing is not going to happen.

And so what happens is, because what can happen as soon as you have this other person in 
there, they, they're, they, if they don't prioritize the same way, they may be doing the right 
job in the wrong order and it's actually causing the other problems.

And so to get ahead of it, just bake in a daily pipeline meeting. And it doesn't need to be long.

That is extremely brilliant and valuable. I never would have thought of that. And you're 
taught. You asked me earlier about my schedule and how it is and I'm talking about I'm 
disciplined, non negotiable. That's brilliant. A 15 minute daily pipeline review. First thing. 
That is so smart.

I love that.

Yeah. But even you do it yourself now and then you're, now you're looking at your own 
pipeline, looking, okay, I got to make sure this, this and this gets done.

And then if you know, because you know which things can be pushed and which can't, and 
then you just bring that other person in and now it'll, it'll help you solve problems fast and 
in real time.

So I can see like, because you know what, that's, this is great for people to learn about 
inefficiencies. Like, I have my Zoho, I use blue mortgage. And of course that's my entire 
pipeline in there, between there and finmo and I.

And of course I do this, but it's not in it with any kind of strategic thought whatsoever. Right.
So to be able to do it very specifically with that intent. So smart. I love that.

Yeah. No, yeah. And it wasn't my idea. I actually learned it from, I want to say this guy 
named Grant, what was his last name? He was a huge producer down in California. And 
when I'd interviewed him, he was doing hundreds of millions a year. And I said, what's the 
best change?

I always ask this question, by the way, you should ask this of other mortgage brokers when 
you is, what's the best change you made in the last year? And it was like, oh, dude, this 
pipeline review thing has saved me so, so much headaches. Because otherwise he was 
jumping.

What was happening is he was jumping in last minute to put fires out. So everything. He had
these people, this team going and then all of a sudden he's getting pulled in to put out fires 
because the fire maybe couldn't.



He could have avoided the whole thing by having that time on a daily basis to just check in 
so simple. Yeah.

So I've heard Wally talk about that sometimes where he starts his day with something 
somewhat similar where they have, like a team huddle up or whatever it is where they do 
and they set. Set the objective that whatever it is that needs to be done. Right. That's so 
smart.

Yep. I love it. Well, man, hey, I always love these conversations. I'm excited to hear how it 
goes with your. Your next hire and our next chat and. Yeah, let's. Yeah. Is there anything last 
you want to say to audience that. That before we wrap up, keep kicking ass?

Anybody that has any particular questions or information that they maybe want to hear us.

Yeah, reach out to us. Reach out to Nate. Yeah, sure.

Because I'd love to bring it up with Scott in here. I know I learn every time I get tons of 
feedback from people on our episodes. Tons of feedback from people. And it's, you know, on
questions on. They loved it.

They love learning about what we're talking about or how did I end up handling this or 
pivoting. So, yeah, continue the questions. Keep them coming. If you happen to be somebody
who might be interested in the types of thing that I'm building here, let me know as well.

But, yeah, absolutely, I'll bring it into the show for you. So it's amazing, Scott, your advice 
here, like, I pick up these nuggets, and I've implemented so many things from you over the 
last, you know, even a year and a half, but the tiny little things that seem small make the 
biggest impact.

So I'm grateful for that. Thank you for that.

Yeah, well, yeah, the whole idea is. And these are everything I've shared with you guys. 
Stole, learned, not stolen, learned from other people. So kind of stolen. It's all. Yeah, we. If 
it's not bolted down, we're going to steal it. So.

Okay.

Thanks, brother.

Thanks so much, buddy.

Hey, thanks again for listening. And hopefully you felt inspired from that conversation. And I



always love chatting with Nate. He's such a motivated guy, but he. He also just executes. 
And, you know, the. The great part about this is that he's. He's.

He's basically being totally open about what he's doing, what's working, what's not. And I 
feel like it's going to be a great opportunity to learn and have, you know, just look over his 
shoulder as he continues to build this.

You know, I always say there's no problem in your mortgage business someone else hasn't 
already solved. The problem is who's got the solution. This podcast is designed to provide 
some of those solutions. If also each week I put an email called Peckford's Playbook, and in 
it is your tactics.

I share links to stuff that we, that we're sharing. You can get on that email list. Check it out. 
Thanks for listening and I will see you on the next episode.