A front row seat in watching a mortgage broker build $100 million business from scratch. If 
so, you buckle up. You're going to want to listen to this episode. Hey, I'm Scott Peckford. 
This is the I Love Mortgage Brokering podcast. And today on the show, I am launching a new
series.

It's going to be a monthly podcast and YouTube with my buddy Nate Atkin as he builds his 
business to 100 million in production. He is in about a year and a half in the business, did 38
million last year, and his goal is to hit 80 million by the end of 2026. And Nate is a 
firecracker.

You're going to find out of a human. And I've had him on the podcast in the past. You can go 
back and listen to the previous episodes, but the guy is an absolute hustler. And so this is a 
unique type of show.

It's a little bit longer, but in it, what I'm doing, and this one, I talked to Nate about his 
background, set some context. He's a smart business guy. Find out where he's at right now, 
where he wants to go, and then we talk about what problems he's trying to solve in the next 
90 days.

And then so it's. It's quasi coaching conversation. And I absolutely love this conversation 
with Nate.

And if you want to build a ski, you want to scale your business, you're going to love being 
able to sit front row and watch, listen in and just look over the shoulder as we do this over 
the next next 12 months and see what Nate was able to accomplish. And yeah, that's a man.

I got to tell you, I'm loving, loving, loving this conversation. So this is a longer episode. 
Things we talk about today are his background, how he. How he got his business up to 
where it is. Another business that he built that very successful that he runs on a little bit of 
time per. Per day.

What does his day look like? So how is he able to get, like, run this successful business? And, 
you know, he did 38 million last year, and how's he going to get to 80 million? So what does 
he do in the morning, in the afternoon? What's that look like?

And do we just dive into the weeds and we get very, very tactical in these conversations. 
You're going to want to listen to this and share it with a friend if. And I just, I'm very excited 
about the series. And before I jump into this, I want to give a shout out to our sponsor, 



OwnWell.

OwnWell is an amazing tool For Canadian mortgage brokers to build relationship with their 
past clients, it sends out a monthly report that shows buying power and home equity. 
Creates a lot of conversations around what, what can I do with my home equity? And the 
open rates on these are 60 to 80%.

You can check them out at omwell ca and check out this conversation with Nate. Hey, Nate, 
welcome back to the show.

Hey, thanks, Scott. Appreciate it.

So I'm really excited to have you on.

I've had you on in the past, but we're, you and I are going to be doing a series in this next 
year where you're going to grow your business and we're going to walk alongside you and 
you're going to share the ups and downs and the wins and, you know, everything that works
and doesn't work.

I'm super excited about this. So before we jump into it though, may, I'd like to get some 
backstory on you, how you got into the mortgage business, how long you've been in it so 
people can know and then that way they can catch up as we do this, this series over the next
year for sure.

Yeah, absolutely. Thanks for having me, Scott. I'm super excited about if we could dump 
some value into some people. So I grew up in a family of essentially real estate kind of 
everything, right.

I had a, when I went to university, I came back, my father, he owns and runs a property 
management company. So growing up from a young man, I was always around real estate 
pretty well my whole life, no matter what it is, development and real estate.

So I kind of went into that road first in my 20s, right out of university, went into property 
management, development and, you know, kind of engineering sciences. Everything to do 
with development management.

I really did fall in love with the engineering side of things, the acquisition side of things, the 
REIT side of things. But, you know, hated, hated the management side like anybody else, 
property management, no interest in that.

So, you know, one thing led to another and I learned how to invest in properties, buy 
properties, acquire real estate and built a little bit of a real estate portfolio in Canada. And 
I'm a dual citizen, so I went down to the States.



I've done the same thing down there and it was always around real estate. And I did end up 
getting my mortgage license early on. Didn't use it. I'm the type of guy that until I can go all 
in on something, I'm not going to go in on it at all. Kind of had it there.

I knew I wanted to use it and eventually the time came where it made the most sense. I had 
one business I was selling and another one I was kind of slowly delegating and I was like, 
okay, now's the time. So when that time came, I joined one brokerage because it was 
convenient.

I had a friend that owned this real estate brokerage and I had used them to do my 
mortgages in the past. Didn't work out. Wasn't a good fit. They're great guys and all that 
kind of stuff, but just not a great fit for somebody who was starting and looking to build like 
I was.

They were already somewhere else. And so, you know, found BRX and the rest is history. 
Right.

Series begins this podcaster begins. Yeah, when did you join Bricks? How long ago was that?

So it's been just approaching two years. I think it's been about a year and a half.

Okay. And then tell me about that first year. How did it go in terms of your production and 
stuff? And, and because we got to set the stage for kind of where you want to go. Right too. 
So that's why I want to talk about it.

Makes sense.

And you're an open book. So the great part is, is like, hey, you're, you're.

Yeah, yeah, you got it, man. You know, you asked me anything. I think the reality is that even
to take it even step further, step back, why Bricks and how I found out Bricks was, you 
know, I was a big fan of the podcast, listening to the Rookie to Rockstar program that 
intrigued me.

I didn't know too much about the back end of the, of the brokerage and the main 
philosophy, but I did know that I had a couple friends that were already there. I knew that 
the Rookie to Rockstar program for me, I wanted to be humble. I wanted to learn from the 
ground up.

I wanted to start off as if even though I hardly done files, I'd been a mortgage broker 
already. I have owned. I had several mortgages myself. I wanted to learn from the very, very 
beginning.



So I knew that with the program that Barrick's had there, I said, listen, I'm going to come in 
here as a rookie, start at the very beginning, work my way up. And that's where it started, 
right from the ground up.

Didn't really know necessarily exactly where I would fit in terms of am I going to do 
business for self? Is it going to be first time buyers? Like, where am I going to fit here? I just 
knew that I was. I'm a savage sales wise.

I know that I got a work ethic that's unmatched and discipline that's unmatched. So I just 
said, let me learn from, you know, the system that Scott's built. And, you know, I kind of took
it from there.

Right. Okay. So prior to coming over, how many mortgages do you think you had funded?

Less than 10.

Okay. And then what was your first 12 months like? Do you remember?

Oh, yeah, very well. I know that. Well, we did a podcast and I know that after, I think 120 
days, I had $12 million in my pipel, and that was essentially from following a specific 
protocol given to me. It was like, you know, don't f. With the system. Right. It was like, here, 
here it is here.

You know, I already had a big network of realtor friends, and that's.

But they weren't referring to you yet.

No, I. Straight friend zone zero business. Not even close. It was just like I knew I knew them 
all. So it was a matter of taking that from one step to the next and learning how to convert 
that from friends to business.

Right. Okay. And then. So that first year, how did it go in terms of like, your first 12 months? 
Okay, from. And then. Yeah. And then this last year, I guess, or. Or where. I'm not sure where
those. Because it's a year and a half. It's less than two years.

So maybe catch us up so that we can set some context.

Yeah, most definitely. It was. It was a steady climb. It was, you know, it's. It was kind of like 
not an exact hockey stick, but it was kind of like a little bit slow. And then eventually the 
hockey stick hit.

I was setting seeds, planting seeds early on with the four slide presentations, with 



connecting to realtors, doing very consistent irregular reach outs, calls, loom videos, weekly 
Friday value videos, all that stuff consistently. And then, you know, confidence built.

I really, really, really learned how to. How to hone in on satisfying my realtor partners and 
really, really make sure I could take care of the clients. Built a CRM, built a database. And 
with all that, you know, it's amazing. You snap and you blink, and here I am now sitting in an
office that's.

That's mine. And it's kind of like I went from pretty well, nothing progressed into, you know,
15 million, 20 million, 30 million, and then, you know, probably end up being about a $40 
million a year. Right in and around that number. 38. Yep.

What is your goal for this? 2026? This is January. We're starting this. So what's the goal for 
2026?

I'm very happy to declare that my goal as a Mortgage broker is to. I want to hit 100 million. 
Like I said to that from you the beginning. My goal is to get to 100 million. I don't even want 
to start counting until I get there. That's going to be, like, the starting point.

And I think a realistic goal would be to double my last year's volume, so to go from 40 to 80 
and really on the trajectory so that 100 is right within reach.

Right within the next year, you roll into 100 million. Okay, so the goal is we're gonna. We're 
gonna hit the end of this year at 80 million. But the path is. And what I'd love to do with this 
series, Nate, is to keep following you till we hit 100.

So if it takes us instead of 12 months, if it takes us 15 months or six, like, let's just keep 
going and. And see what you learn. And so maybe again, just that we want to make this 
useful. It's not like, hey, you know, I. I. A couple things.

I don't want people to be like, oh, we're on here to just brag about how good Nate's doing. 
Nate put. Nate is a worker. Like, one of the things I love about Nate is that, I mean, you've 
been trained. You've been lifting weights for. Talk about how one area in life can translate to
another.

You've been training and lifting weights and for years and are very disciplined. You just 
applied that same philosophy to this other business. Right. That. Would that be correct?

Extremely correct. I would say that the biggest part of me as a human is not mortgages at all.
In fact, you know, the biggest part of me as a human is. Is that one piece that I've learned 
through years of discipline and failing. So, yeah, a big part of my life is fitness, working out, 
health.



But I truly, truly believe that how you do one thing is how you do everything. Like, I teach 
my kids to wipe off the seat, to pick up garbage on the road. It's like, literally, how you do 
one thing is how you do everything.

And I've only learned that from years of building businesses and failing and coming into a 
place now where there's a maturation, where it's like, do the work. It's the data, the daily 
tasks, the small, tiny little things that just compound that. You know, they get boring and 
they get.

I tell people that most successful businesses are Groundhog Day, and it's not exciting. Like, 
you may think, oh, my gosh, it's exciting. No, no, it's the same every day.

Yeah, it's not just business, it's life. You talked about fitness a second ago. You talked about 
working out. I've been working out for, you know, I'm 44, so I've been working out for, you 
know, 30 years. Right? I've been working out for 30 years.

And, you know, people see me at the gym and, and you know, just assume, oh, yeah, you're 
in good shape. You know how long you've done this for? It's just groundhog Day for 30 
years. And that goes for everything in life, family.

You want to be a good husband, a good father, a good wife, a good, you know, anything. It's 
just grab.

I have a question for you on that. Even though it's it. Because I think it's mindset related and
usually, you know, I love mindset stuff. How do you. And maybe this isn't a struggle for you. 
How do you not get bored and how do you stay motivated?

Because a lot of people listening to this would say, yeah, I love. I know on paper that makes 
a lot of sense, but man, I struggle with it. So like, how do you not get bored and how do you 
not lose motivation?

Great question. And the answer to the first question is, I do get bored. Right? I do. We're a 
human. So there are. And I. And I'm like, I'm like you like, it's easy to get shiny object 
syndrome. It's easy for me to bounce around. It's like I'm a high octane kind of guy.

So I see something over there and I want to get it. But, you know, the, the way to do it is to 
really, really clearly identify, you know, the why. Really, we talk about that a lot, but it is 
very powerful.

So why you're doing it and make sure that you have that North Star that's always there 
shining for you. So that whenever you do have those days, they're like. Which comes every, 
you know, a Tuesday morning in February.



You don't want to make the calls, you don't want to go to the gym, you don't want to get out 
of bed. But you know that North Star is there. And if it's strong enough and you remind 
yourself about it, you keep going for sure, without a doubt. And once you start to get frog.

What you're making progress and you see results, the motivation and is in the results.

Right?

Right. That's truth.

So, okay, can I ask you how did you determine your why for your. Because you've already 
had, like, maybe before. I'm going to pause for a Second, your previous business, you built a 
business that was something to do with window. Maybe just talk about that.

The reason I want you to share it is because I want people to understand that you are a 
business builder. It's not just like a lot of people get into the mortgage space and maybe they
can sell mortgages, but where they fail is actually they don't know how to become a 
business.

They don't understand about building a business. Let's talk about that first and then I have 
some other questions. So tell me about what some. Like that one in particular, I know you've
done other things. Tell me about what you did there.

Yeah, great, great point. A lot of people end up signing up for a job that, that they spend 80 
hours a week doing and they thought they were going to be building a business. You're 
right.

So, so I, when I, when I was working for the family business, property management, for 
years, I was tendering all of our construction, construction projects and realized there was a
gap in the field of aluminum windows and doors for high rise buildings.

And at the time I approached a concrete contractor who was a good friend, personal friend 
of mine, he owns the company and I said to him, listen, I'm thinking of starting a company to
do aluminum windows and doors.

He knew my background in business and in engineering and he said, okay, listen, put a 
business model together for me to look at and, and we'll see if we, we partner up together or
not.

So I went out, dedicated the time, built a business model, presented it to him and then he 
said, yeah, okay, let's do it. I said, you don't need to do anything, but just make sure that I 
don't fuck up. That's your only job. I'll put in all the capital, I'll do all the work.



I just need you to be my business mentor.

Right.

Started the company, Aluminum window and door company. And after years of dedication, 
five years later, we had contracts with some of the biggest REITs across Canada.

And you know, to this day, after a lot of successes and a lot of failures, I still own that 
company, 100% still, and still run that business. So yeah, there's, there's, there's a history of 
business.

And so you got people that. How many people work in that business?

There's about 30 people that work in that business now, whether it be from installers to 
sales to everything across the board.

And then. Do you mind sharing what kind of gross volume does that kind of business do? I 
know there's a difference in gross in it, but what would that, what's that look like? Just to 
give a sense.

Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Yeah. So we, we used to do quite a bit more than we do now. Right.

I've slowly been delegating and peeling it down, selling some pieces of it off, but there was a 
time where we were up into the, you know, $30 million range in revenues, and now we're a 
little bit below that, but, yeah, we're kind of in that range.

Yeah. So. Okay, I share that because one of the I, I find with mortgage brokers that get good 
at the brokering side of it is they don't know how to. They don't understand how to build a 
business and then they get stuck doing everything. Some.

It's kind of like that quadrant Robert Kaki talks about employee self employed, which means
you basically work for yourself and you're, you do everything and then you become a 
business owner, which is the business works for you. And then you become an investor.

And so you've been able to build a business in a separate industry and now you're in the 
mortgage space. What skills that you learned from that are you applying to your mortgage 
business? Like what, what are some of the things that you're now applying to building this 
$100 million mortgage business?

Great question. The first piece is, is the mindset. First piece is kind of anticipating and 
knowing that there's going to be days that are going to be very difficult and be able to know 
that if you fail or if you run into a roadblock, it's, it's just an opportunity for you to pivot, go 
another way.



That's the biggest thing is the mindset. And then of course from there, as far as actual 
tactical skills go, knowing now that I know that I'm building a business and not a job, right 
from the beginning, my strategy was, okay, I need to start to create a client journey. I need 
to put a CRM in place.

I need to do. I need to implement a tech stack that is going to make sure that it will allow me
to have as much time as possible. And you've helped with this immensely personally, Scott.

Working in my zone of genius so that everything else that is not my zone of genius can be 
either delegated or can be done through automation or what have you. So it's just building 
that business rather than sitting me sitting in front of a computer, working on the files 
myself.

And thinking you have to do everything yourself. Right. Because that's what a lot of times 
people, we start out and I, I find mortgage brokers will have this. No one. I can't let it was 
touch the file. They're going to screw it up. Nobody else can pull credit like me. It's not true. 
Of course.

Nobody else can order appraisals and they end up getting stuck. And it's okay. And if you're, 
if you want that, that's okay. But then you're not going to build a business. You're just going 
to have a job that as soon as you stop, it's gone. And so.

Yeah, okay, so I want to go circle back something you said earlier. You said, when you have 
these days that are boring, you do get bored. Motivation comes because you just build on 
the momentum. But the why matters. So what, like, you've built a successful business. Why 
do, why do this?

I mean, you're 44. I'm, you know, I'm not sure to talk you out of it because I think you're 
doing great. But why would you decide to get into mortgage brokering and decide to build a,
a big business?

Yeah, excellent question. I think it's twofold there for me. One is going to be, I like the 
challenge, to be honest with you, after doing it for quite some time, I do, I do kind of really 
enjoy taking on challenges and something new. I feel like I will do this forever.

I feel like in terms of like, build it, build it to a point where successful, either delegated or 
sell it and go to the next thing. I really feel like that also you become good and proficient at 
building businesses, quite frankly, I mean, you can relate to that, right?

Which once, you know, kind of some of the obstacles you're going to face,.

You're not scared of them.



They're no longer landmines that you don't see. So that's one reason. The other is that I 
have a whole, I have a new decade of my life that I'm starting, which is going to be. I have 
older kids. And so for me, you know, my kids expressed interest to me directly.

They've always been around everything I've been doing forever. But, you know, my oldest 
son came to me and was like, you know, he was already in a sales industry right now.

He graduated from university and he's like, you know, he showed interest in wanting to 
come work for the family business to an extent. Like, I have a, I have a Hummingbird Capital 
Properties as well. We have a real estate company.

But he wanted to get involved with mortgages and financing and things to that extent. And I 
said, well, this is great, you know, so literally now he comes in with me. He got his mortgage 
license and we're doing this together.

Greatest joy of my life is when he comes in here on Tuesdays and spends the day with me 
and I'm going to. I could do this forever. Every second spent with him now is. That's a new 
why. My other why was, you know, I can get into other stuff with my wife and that kind of 
stuff.

And now that my son's here, it's a whole new why. I got all these new wise.

Right. Okay. Something that I've noticed about you is that you're extremely coachable. I 
mean, you started the. That other business. You found somebody, a mentor and said, just 
keep me from screwing up. You know, you came into our. You literally followed the program
to a T, the recipe and just.

And compressed the timeline. And if I'm honest, in my 30s, like, I'm in my, you know, I'm 50 
now, but in my 30s, I was not coachable. I would take coaching programs and I would not. I 
would be like, yeah, yeah, but I'm creative. This was my. And I would. I'm going to just 
change.

And wouldn't you know, it hard. It never worked. It was. It was only when I turned 40 that I 
truly became coachable. Have you always been coachable or is that a, you know, and just 
been like, hey, I want to or. Because if you are you just obviously it makes you smarter than 
me.

Or is that something you've had to work at?

No, no. That's a great question. I think it's a combination of two things. One is I grew up in a 
competitive team sport environment, right. Played very competitive hockey and that kind of
stuff. So I was always taught to be coachable.



You know, the good players are coachable and the scouts like coachable, which meant that I 
would kind of. It was kind of indoctrinated into me to be. To be coachable, to listen, to 
absorb, and then to implement. Yeah, that started off early on.

What position did you play?

I started off when I was younger as a defenseman. Then I converted into a winger.

Okay. See, I played goalie and goalies are weird, and that's probably perfect for me. We're 
not really team players. It's like I just want to do my own thing.

There you go. That says a lot. There we go here. The therapy session starts here. He was a 
goalie. Okay, now we know.

Right in the head.

Love it. Love it. Yeah. So I mean, part of it is just being. Growing up in that atmosphere. The 
other part you mentioned a minute Ago age.

You know, it is true that with perspective, I think that maybe I did mature earlier than most, 
but in my 20s, especially when I was in a family business, I'll say it right now quite 
transparently.

I. I think that I was probably more difficult for, like, my father and the people and that he 
had hired for him. I probably presented challenges to them. I think that I probably pushed 
back a little bit because it was a family business, and I wouldn't.

I didn't listen nearly as much as I should have, and there's a reason why I expired there in 
that environment. Right. And I think I probably look back and have some perspective and 
say, we'd have done things differently. It wasn't as coachable then.

Right. Okay. You know, it's interesting. So when I'd seen what you'd done through the 
program and I'd reached out to you, and I knew that you're. I saw your Instagram, and 
you're in a. So then I said to you, okay, I think it was a year ago. I said, give me a workout 
program.

And so you gave me the brick. You called the bricks bodies, and you sent it to me. And it's. 
And I just. And. And again, this has been so good, because seeing how coachable you are has 
actually made me. I'm just going to do what he says, and I. I don't question it. I remember 
one time I was.

I was like, you had me doing. And I don't. The sequence of the exercises, the stacking, I. I 



don't understand it. I just say. I just trust that Nate, with his 30 years of experience, knows 
more than me, and I'm just gonna follow it.

I remember I was reading about how you should do leg curls before squats. It does 
something. It was a whole bunch of scientific. And. And I noticed in the workout program, I 
was like. I'm like, this is weird. Why am I doing this? I don't know. They told me, just do it.

And then like, a week later, I see an Instagram. It's like, hey, there's a study that shows that. 
And, like, of course Nate knows this. And so this is the thing about getting a mentor or 
somebody that knows that's been there or knows their stuff is you can short. You don't have
to think about that.

Like, I. I just trust the person. Address that. You know what you're doing. And, dude, I 
showed my workout to a buddy of mine, and he's like, you have to be on trt, like, what are 
you taking? And I'm Like, I'm not taking anything.

And he's like, he was shocked because you know what you're doing, you know how to 
design it and I'm not on anything. I mean, I'm saying I would never do that, but I'm not at the
moment. And so, but he was shocked that I was doing these programs.

But because you've engine, you've know so much experience, the way it's engineered makes
a difference.

Yeah, I mean, I can equate that to your knowledge with me and being a mortgage broker.

Right.

So. So as far as fitness goes, yeah, I mean I got, I have the 10,000 hour rule, I've got 30,000 
hours of it. Plus I'm also married to the absolute queen of everything to do with fitness and 
integrative health. So I, it's second nature to me.

I literally sit at the gym sometimes and I can equate things so quickly and I can put things 
together that I see other people doing that are wrong right away. It's just second nature.

It's like when you and I speak and I say to you, Scott, you know, like Nate, you know, tell me 
what's the next step for you? Where are you here in your business? And I'll say something 
and you'll say, well, you thought about this. What about that? Have you ever thought of like 
the dentist approach?

Where you're the dentist and you come in the room and everything else is set up and I'm 
like, oh my gosh. So you do the same thing with mortgages and building a business around 
mortgages that I do with fitness. Right. So yeah, that's that, that's that.



Don't f with the system, find the mentor, listen to them approach. And now we both can 
appreciate that.

In different from each other. Okay, so what do you think then? So the goal is to get to 100 
million. What do you think right now is your current biggest challenge? Now that people are
contact, what do you think is your biggest challenge that you're going to need to solve in the 
next 90 days?

Great question.

It's even changed in the last few weeks.

You and I spoke not too long ago and talked about how I do need to. My next hire needs to 
be like a, like kind of like a full time underwriter that has the capacity to handle like files 
front to back. That I know for sure.

But even in the last couple of weeks I realized that I didn't think of this before. I just thought
of this recently that coming into the holiday season, like I was really, really busy had lots of 
files, you know, things completely teared right down and got really, really slow. Right?

So I had to make sure that I ramped up my lead gen still and reach out. And, you know, I've 
now I built obviously a steady base of, of, you know, partners, but things slow right down.

And I'm thinking to myself right now, this very moment, right now, if I had an underwriter 
full time, paying them a salary, they probably have more time than I would want them to 
right now, this very second, even though now, you know, you know, this, this week, now 
that we're back into January, things have really ramped back up again.

But I think that there's a new problem I just found, which is the fun part of business. And I 
got to figure out a way to make sure that I keep that lead flow very, very consistent. Right.

If I'm going to be the guy, like we talked about, where my zone of genius is communicating, 
bringing in business, sales, all that kind of stuff, I got to make sure that I'm keeping that fed 
constantly for this underwriter that, that I need to hire next.

So there's a couple of thoughts I have on that. That's a. It's a good insight that you had, is 
that there are going to be periods of the year where it's going to be slower. And so there's 
two things that you can. I think there's a couple of things you can do with that.

One, obviously, when you have an underwriter, you're. You're going to see less dips because
you're going to have more time to prospect. You're going to just be able. And doesn't mean 
you're not going to take breaks. So that should go down.



But the second thing is that there's going to be other parts of the business that you're going 
to want to take time to retool and improve. And sometimes your underwriter is not going to 
have time to do it until you have. So that slow time is not. Doesn't mean not productive.

It just means, okay, we're going to sharpen the axe. There's some processes we need to 
clean up. I want the SOPs dialed in so that when we hire the next person, it gets even easier 
to train them. So it's like, it's.

It's not wasted, in my opinion, especially since you know that all you have to do is go back 
out and shake the tree to get more business. And so it's. And then the other thing I would 
say, mindset wise, is that when you do have a slow two week. You're only paying people for 
two weeks at a time.

So if you got a salary of $80,000 a year, let's say it's what the cost was the two weeks that. So
it's not like it's. You're writing this check for eight. I was like, oh my gosh, I'm paying them 
80. No, not. You're paying them for two weeks.

And then the third thought on that is that it's also an opportunity for them to take some 
time off. So if it, if it's not retooling and sharpening the ax, it's like, okay, look, I want you to 
take some time, some of your time off right now and catch your breath and spend some time
with family.

So then again, it, it can be, it can be okay.

Like.

But I also think that realistically, when you have more capacity in your up to that time, 
you're going to have more, there's going to be more going on. So it will go up. So that, that's 
just my, my thought on that. But. So, okay. How's it going with Underwriter Search?

It's going well. I think that I've had. I spoke to three. I put it out there. I spoke to three 
people so far and I think that one looks like they probably a really good fit.

Based on the discussions that you and I had on things I need to ask structure and then the 
type of personality that that person is is going to be really important. Right. They can't be 
innate. Right. They need to be.

You don't want to like, as much as it'd be exciting to hire you, it will be a nightmare for you. 
Hire you.

Yeah, Great advice. Yeah, great advice you gave me. You can't have two, two of me's. Right. 
And eventually they're going to want to do what I'm doing and we just won't matter.



And then you're gonna, they're gonna be gone and you're gonna just be training somebody 
that's you're going to compete with or. And so, okay, so you've had three people and if you 
thought through like again, I'm going to get in order again to make this useful for listeners.

I want to get into some of the weeds. Have you thought through like compensation? Like 
you don't have to give me exacts because it's public, but like how you, what your thoughts 
are on that and, and structure and stuff?

I've given it thought. Yeah. Based on our discussion that you and I had Last and I think that 
in order for it to be realistic with this particular person is going to be a salaried role. It'll be 
something that bring them in and pay them fairly further time.

Not kind of like piecemealing it on them so that they're committed, they're in and they're 
locked into the company if you will, as an employee as opposed to just kind of like 
piecemealing it off hourly or per file.

And then maybe they're doing files for somebody else or themselves and then they're more 
committed to that than to mine. You know, it's kind of like I'm going to make the leap and do
this. It's like let's do it right, do it properly.

Make sure that the person is extremely happy, very supported, very comfortable and then 
that way and they give them an.

Opportunity, you know this I'm sure. But you're going to give them an opportunity for an 
upside from growth and stuff. So that its salary plus some opportunity, right?

Most definitely, yeah. And that's you know, even a VRX model where it's kind of like you're 
incentivized to a great extent. More so than just the dollar for sure.

Yeah.

You know, I think one of the things and people listening you may be like well I've done 
piecework or I've hired people that can work but usually if you have an ambitious goal like 
Nate, it is a temporary solution because it you, you can end up with a piecework or I've had, 
I know a guy, very successful broker who was paying a percentage of his, I think I told you 
this but saying a percentage of his files to this person working for him and he wanted to hire
someone else because he was so busy but he couldn't because this person wanted to get to 
that person's like I'm going to get paid less money.

And so it became a bottleneck. So instead of having a salary plus the bonus, this percent 
model or turned into a bottleneck for the business. And so that's why it's important to think 
through back to like I talked about, you know, leg curls before squats.



There is a certain structure that is more efficient if you've seen this enough times. And it's 
the same thing with the mortgage business. If you have intentions to scale and grow, having 
salaried with bonus is the way to go.

You alluded to something very important there for our, for the listeners and for myself 
included. It's kind of like having that business growth mindset where you know, you need to
be able to be thinking beyond this exact moment.

So it's like, oh yeah, it might be easier and cheaper to go ahead and piecemeal this, but if I 
have the vision of the hundred million dollar business or whatever it is over here, what's the
best decision for me long term?

Not sure. That's good.

You've helped me to, to think about things that way rather than just like, hey, you know, 
don't hire somebody profile or hire a couple people, fulfillment profile here and there and 
kind of just piece it together because that's going to break when you outgrow that.

And then you're going to have to, then you're gonna have two problems to fix.

Right? Right. Yeah. And he's got more problems to fix. And then are you, do you think, what 
is the likelihood that this person will be that they will take. Are you going to make them a 
job offer? Are you, what, what are you thinking?

Speak to them again on Friday and then they're going to bring me some information from 
them and then we'll go ahead and we'll have more to talk about next episode.

Okay, so you're, it may proceed with it if you have a backup plan if this person doesn't work.

Yeah, I'm going to continue to interview people. My deadline for myself is March 31st. Right.
So right now on the recording, we're, you know, kind of beginning a first week, end of the 
first week in January. So I want to make sure that I make the right decision.

And rather than just hire, just to hire and then.

Yeah, that's smart. Take your time. And then do you have it given any thought to like testing,
so like knowledge testing of the person? So what. And what are you doing there?

Yeah. Based on our discussion that we had, you and I definitely asking them how they would
handle certain circumstances, certain files. What I found with that is that I've learned quite a
bit from their responses, in fact. Right. Like, you know how if they're good,.

You should be learning from them. If, if you're, if you're sitting there going, you're not 



seeing, then that could be, that could be a, you know, yellow flag or red.

Quite frankly, I'm not the greatest underwriter. So to be honest with you, like, I'm an very 
average. So it's like I want the person to wow me. I want the person to be like, hey, it's like 
perfect. This is great because I'm a fantastic, you know, lead generator.

I'm fantastic with people and that sales, but I want somebody that can wow me at 
underwriting, where it's like, they know 10 times as much as I do. That's the goal here. 
That's really the reality.

Yeah, that's really good. Okay, so you're going to do some testing, and then what do you 
think that wants to get this person hired? So let's assume we roll. Let's play this out. You get 
this person. What do you think the next problem that you're going to need to solve is?

That's a fantastic question that I don't know the answer to. I think that we'll see how the 
business progresses from there, because we could run into all kinds of landmines that I 
don't know. I know that you can foresee what that was going to look like depending on how 
we progress.

And that's going to be the fun part of this show. We'll go kind of episode. Episode.

Yeah. I'm kind of leading the question here, so I think, like, there's that. I want to change 
directions in a second here for the last part of this conversation.

But yeah, I. I would suspect that, like, I think you've already dialed in your customer journey
and you got processes, so part of it's just going to be getting them into your ecosystem.

And one of the things I love to say to new people is that when you join a me or work with 
me for your first 90 days, you got fresh eyes. And so I. I say to them, if you see something 
and you're not sure why we do it, ask why, and we may have a good reason. And then you'll 
understand, and we may not.

It might be that I just do it because that's what I. And it's not. And so what happens is you 
can allow them to help you improve your systems, and it gives them a voice to say, hey, wait 
a second, I noticed that this like. And then you could say, oh, here's why we do it. And they 
go, oh, I get it.

Or they can help you improve it so they can be. Help you right from day one instead of them 
sitting on their hands. Because once people are in an environment for long, you don't notice 
things anymore. You don't question, you just do them. Right. And.

And then I love the idea of opening the lane up to fresh eyes. That's perfect. Yeah. Yeah. You 
asked a second ago what's going to be around the corner. And to be honest with you, or 



what I see for me, and maybe not so much a challenge. You'll be able to first see the 
challenges quicker Than I can.

But more so for me is going to be what. Where I see kind of the next, like the goal is. So we 
have a big dollar goal, whatever, you know, you know this book right here of your friend 
here.

Yeah. 247 Mindset.

I'm obsessed with the model and the idea and the way that you, you know, you've talked 
about it several times and the idea of actually properly taking advantage of the referral kind 
of partner network. And you know, I've got. I'm at the doorstep. I've got some phenomenal 
partners.

I have not tracked. I have not tracked effectively. I know that I'm giving them 10 times more 
business that's coming back and I want to be able to.

I know that Wally talks about really focusing on one thing at a time, but when we get past 
this, I want to really, at some point in time throughout the year, figure out a good way to 
start to implement, you know, really connecting with referral partners and being able to 
take advantage of that.

Because I feel like that's kind of like, you know, between that and like the own. Well, really 
being able to develop my business that way.

Right. That's really good. Okay, so let me ask you this now, and I think this is something. I'll 
check in with you from time to time. What does your day look like? So what. How are you.

Because it's going to change and I think would be interesting is to be what does Nate's day 
look like today versus 3 months, 6 months, 12 months? So what does it look like? And how 
do you fit in the things that you're.

Because I think that that'll be interesting for listeners as well to follow along.

My day is extremely consistent and it has been for many, many years. I just plug and play 
the stuff that I'm doing. So I get up in the morning early, like you. When I say early, I mean 
depends on the day. It used to be always five, you know.

Now depending on exactly what my schedule brings, it's pretty well between 5, 5:30, 
sometimes a little bit before, sometimes a little bit after. But within that range get up, I 
immediately go to the gym. I don't even. People want to hear this as well. Because I'm a 
fitness guy.



I don't eat, I go fasted the night before. Everything is ready. Mostly not because I'm super 
prepared, but because if I wake up, my wife, she'll kill me. So my clothes are ready, 
everything. My gym bag is ready. Everything is ready. My lunch is. I prepare food like for 
days in a Row.

So my, my food's ready. This is every day of my life. Everything's prepared. I literally get up 
out of bed, I walk out, I grab my stuff, I go to the gym. I get to the gym, clean myself a little 
bit, clean myself up a little bit, work out. And, and from there it's usually straight to my 
office.

Sometimes it might be to meet a partner, a realtor partner or whatever, what have you, 
depending on the day. But those, those might switch, but usually it's straight to my office. 
And then I get right into my like uninterrupted high leverage activity right away. Like 
immediately the first.

So what time is it that you roll into the office?

Between 8, usually around 8, like 7:38.

And then what is that? What would be an examples of high leverage activities that you're 
doing right now? And I'm gonna, these are questions I'm gonna come back to. I know that 
I'm gonna assume the workout food thing is going to not change.

What I'm interested in is what happens when Nate gets to the office today versus when you 
have staff versus at the different levels of your business. And so what is, what does high 
leverage activity look like for you?

First thing, lead generation, reach outs. Always it's going to be. I understand and recognize 
in business that if I'm not generating leads and bringing in business, nothing else matters, 
nothing ever will matter. And that stuff dries up and you have to always do it forever. It's 
like working out.

The same two parts of my day that start, that I start off with are the two things that will 
never be able to stop. And that's going to be exercise and nutrition and then some kind of 
feeding into the system, which is a lead gen to some extent.

So are you are so. Okay, I'm going ask. I'm going to get really specific. I know we got to wrap 
up here in a minute, but is that look like phone calls? Does that look like videos? Does that 
look like social media posts? What is. Give me examples of what you're doing there.

So it's not social media posts that, that's scheduled and that's done in another day. It's. It is 
though phone calls, DMS contacts with realtor partners. It's not working on files. It's not 
clients. It's going to be realtor partners or lead gen. Whether it be a. Any of my partners. It's 



reach out.

It's going to be making phone calls. I have, I've neglected to make. If there are clients that 
we're working With. I'm working with a partner together on. That's kind of. It's on my sheet 
here. That's left to drift a little bit longer than I'd like. Give them a call, see how they're 
doing.

Check out thing. How was your holiday? That kind of stuff. It's going to be just touch points 
and lead gen. That's all it's going to be. There's nothing else there.

Okay. And how long do you have a time from 8 till when is there a certain time that you cut 
that off?

Yeah, I usually do that for about an hour and a half kind of thing. Two hours depending on 
the day.

Eight, so, so 9, 30, 10 o'.

Clock.

What is the next stage? What does the next stage of your day look like? What are you, what 
do you get into then?

Well, I'm eating my highly nutritious food next and then everyone, that's all they're going to 
care about.

They're gonna be like, they're gonna be. At some point we're gonna do a show just on Nate's
nutrition and, and the whole thing. But we'll get there in time.

Day in the life. Yeah, yeah. And then, and then, you know, things will flip flop because 
sometimes I am doing everything for the most part myself still to be like files that need 
working on, lenders that need reaching out to, you know, that sort of stuff.

So it's for the most part from there it's going to be file work. I'll do that for a couple of hours.
I can get everything done that needs to get done for this business from the time I walk in the
door until about, you know, around 1 o', clock, 2 o'.

Clock.

I work direct, I'm not distracted, I'm not on social media, I'm not doing anything else but 
just working. And then after that there's, I remember I have multiple businesses, I own 
multiple properties. There's other things I tend to as well. And that stuff comes later after 
the mortgage.



When do you, when do you do client calls? What time of day?

I do all the discovery calls. So I'll like batch schedule them so I'll know like in one particular 
day it might be. So for example, tomorrow it's going to be all after 3pm, right. So it might be 
like from 3 to 5, it might be. And I.

These are 15 minute discovery calls, strategy sessions where I need to do them all batching 
together and block them all in together. So it's not like 9, 11, 12, 15, 1. I mean you can't Get.

You're switching gears all the time. It's kind of like you don't. You're. It's when you go to the 
gym, you're working out. When you're prospecting, you're prospecting. When you're doing 
discovery calls, you're. So you really are creating. And then there's less. Yeah. Blocks. So 
that's really good.

So those are later. They always later in the day?

No, no, no, no. Definitely not. Sometimes they are right after my highest leverage activity in 
the morning. Sometimes it'll. They'll start at 11am Like, I'll go straight from making calls of 
realtor partners and connecting with folks right into a couple discovery calls based on.

If I know that in that particular day the folks who are going to be available are going to be 
available at that window, then I'll do them. Then there's no, there's no direct science 
because I have to be a little bit malleable.

You're flexible. You're inflexible on your key things, which are fitness, nutrition, and 
prospecting. And then you're flexible on the other things, depending on when you. When 
you need to do it and your other business demands. Okay, this is really helpful. I'm almost 
done.

And there was one last question I wanted to ask you. What was it about? Oh, I know what it 
is. And then we'll continue this on our next call or next time we chat. How do you not get.

And I talk to mortgage brokers, they sit down at their desk, they're going to do prospecting, 
but they got a file that's on fire. And it's like, I know it's on fire and I know it needs a. It 
needs me to hit it with a fire extinguisher. How do you ignore it? And do you. I do you ignore
it and how.

If you do, how do you ignore it to do the prospecting and then pick it up after?

That's such a good question. And I'd be lying if I said that I ignore. Can ignore it 100 of the 
time. Nobody can. I do have a barometer of the degree of fire, and I'm pretty good now. I 
think at first I didn't do as good of a job at it. Right.



So you didn't. You didn't know if it was like how. It was just a small. Everything's a fire. 
Everything's.

Everything's a fire.

Yeah.

It's like, oh, my God, I need a license. There's. Oh, my gosh. Everything's a fight, right?

Yeah.

Whereas now you know what an actual fire is. So I think that that comes with experience 
and perspective and understanding the needs and the demands. And I understand that right
now. You know, I'm the one that's putting the fires out as well, so I do have to tend to them.

But it's really me understanding the level of fire. Like, if it's an absolute. Like, if we're 
closing tomorrow, it's a massive issue. I'm taking care of it now. I'm dealing with it now. And
I'm also a now kind of guy. Right.

Like, where it's like, if things that need to get done, even if it's just, like, stuff like I hear from 
you to do, like, if you gave me a tip right now or suggestion to do, I would go and I would do 
it.

Right, right. I know you're, like, done. Okay, Done.

Yeah.

Next.

It's like the shiny object syndrome. You did that? That. The session first. I have it on the wall 
here. Here. The ones who are on YouTube, right. There's Scott's. And it's like, as soon as you 
said you could do this for your realtors, I put. I scheduled it the next day. Right.

Okay, well, and next show, we're going to talk about how that went. So I want to get. Yeah. 
Oh, yeah. I'm writing notes for myself. How did the. The. That go? Sessions with your 
realtors.

Yeah. So to answer your question, the. The level of fire is really going to be that determined 
on that. But it's just a matter of over experience knowing that. No, everything is getting 
during this block.

Right. Just like you're not. I mean, to be fair, what I. What I remind people of is that when 



you're at the gym, you're not trying to put that fire out. If you're sitting there with your 
spouse, you're not trying to put that fire out.

If you're on a discovery call with a new client, like, we are able to focus and put it aside. We 
just don't do it. We do it selectively. Right.

If Nate sees you at the gym and you're looking at your phone, I'm gonna come over to you 
and smack in the back of the head and take the phone.

Oh, shoot. Promise me that.

Yeah.

You're probably gonna smack me with me next time we go to the gym.

But the excuse now is people say, oh, my workout's on my phone. Yeah, but I mean, really, in
reality, though, nothing. If you're there, like, it's like an m in. In CrossFit. There's this term 
called amrap. You know what it means now?

You didn't before, but it means for it stands for as many reps as possible. So your lifestyle 
should be amrap. When you're focusing on something that you're doing, you need to be 
doing as many reps as possible at that one thing only. Nothing else breaks your focus.

The same thing goes for your workout or like, you know, when you're doing prospecting, 
you're making calls. You need to be focused on that one task only or else you're never going 
to make any progress.

Yeah, that's so good. Okay, last thought I'm gonna, I'm gonna share and then we'll wrap up is
that I remember listening to Reid Hoffman, who was founder of LinkedIn, he was at PayPal 
and he said that when they launched PayPal, one of the things they had to do is let small 
fires burn.

And they let a prop that because they had to fix the bigger thing. And so what you're telling 
me is that and this is something you've, your skill, you're developing, is that you're looking 
at it, recognizing it is a small fire. It can wait till 11 o'. Clock.

It does not need me to deal with at 8 o' clock in the morning. I can do my prospecting, but 
there are fires, like you said, tomorrow, this thing needs to close. Okay, that one I'm going to
jump on right now because I don't want that to.

And but most of the time it's a fire that can wait until your, your actual underwriting time.

That is such a good analogy. And I'll tell you that a lot of people on this call, again, don't 



balance as many things as I do. But the truth is that that happens to me all the time.

Today, for example, I'll be sitting there and I'll get an email or a call from somebody that the 
windows for a project that we're supposed to do that were supposed to be delivered didn't 
show up. You know, so we've got scheduling, we've got swing stages, we've got staff, we got 
everybody there.

The windows didn't show up. I'm working on something else right now that has to do with 
my mortgage business. I can compartmentalize it, ignore that and continue to focus on what 
I'm doing until I get to that. Right. So yeah, it's a good, perfect analogy.

We have to really learn focused on what we're doing because those fire, small fires can burn
if they need to. We'll get to them when we get.

They're not going to burn everything down. Okay, Nate, I really appreciate it, man. We're 
going to talk again soon. I'm going to see you next month in Kelowna. I can't wait. And this is
going to be a lot of fun. Thanks. Bye for now.

Thank you so much. It was amazing.

Hey, thanks again for listening, and hopefully you felt inspired and motivated by my. From 
this conversation with Nate. I absolutely love talking to that guy. I could talk to him for 
hours. He is my personal trainer. He's not technically a personal trainer, but he is my 
personal trainer.

And, man, I got to tell you, I have absolutely loved following his program. The guy knows his
stuff, right? And so. And he's incredibly coachable. And, you know, he's obviously very 
ambitious, but there's also a humility in saying, I don't know how to do this.

I'm gonna find someone that knows how to do it, and then I'm gonna copy it. And if you're in
the mortgage business, like, honestly, the best thing. And I. I touched on this in the episode, 
but I was not coachable in my 30s.

Like, I swear to God, if you knew me, I would take coaching, and I would not follow it. I 
would always think I'm too creative. I can. This. Don't do that.

It's like, imagine if you got somebody who's built IKEA furniture and they build a great map 
for you how to build the IKEA furniture, and you're like, I don't need that. I'm going to figure
it on my own. By the way, in my 30s, I used to do that, too. I would be like, I don't need it.

But how hard can this be? I will build it. I'll build this IKEA furniture. And sure enough, I'd 
be done. And then one of the panels is backwards or something. I'm like, ah, damn it. Take 
the whole thing apart, put it back together again. I no longer do that.



I will not build anything without looking at the instructions. I want to. I. I do not. Maybe it's 
because I'm older. I hate wasting time. And so I always want to find somebody who's done 
what I want, I want to do and give me advice so that I can make less mistakes.

So this purpose of this show is to help you with that if you're trying to scale your business, 
whether it's from 20 million to 40 or 40 to 80. But in any case, thank you for listening. I 
really appreciate you as a listener. You a couple ways you can stay engaged. I send her an 
email every week.

Peckford's Playbook. I share some insights, things that I'm learning. Get on that by clicking 
on this or hit me up on social media or email me Scott at I lovemortgagebrokering. Com. Of 
course, you can find out more about what we're doing at Bricks at ybricks.com.

That's ybrx.com and I will see you in the next episode. And as I always say, there's no 
problem in your mortgage business that someone else hasn't already solved. Your problem 
is who's got the answer. This podcast is designed to provide some of those answers.

Thanks for listening and I will see you on the next episode.