Hey, this is a replay episode from.

November 2022 where I have a conversation with Jim Trelucas about renewals and refis 
and I want you to listen to this for two reasons.

First, I want you to listen to.

The strategy that he's applying in the rate environment that we are in in 2022 when rates 
are going up and how Jim thinks about mortgages.

And the second thing I want to listen to is how he takes a client who's unconsciously 
incompetent so they don't even know they don't know and makes them consciously 
incompetent so that they realize that what they need is his him as their expert in their 
corner.

And the reason I'm sharing this episode.

Is because I've got coming up very soon a webinar where I'm going to share with you if 
you're interested.

Jim has obviously adjust his strategies for the current market because it's different.

The market right now is very different than it was two years ago.

And he's got a very cool offer coming where if you want to learn exactly how he's winning at
renewals, shoot me a DM or an email.

I'll put you on the list and I will send you an invite to that because you're going to want to 
hear how he's now adapted to this.

But I think this is just a good primer on what Jim is all about.

Before we jump into that, I want to give a shout out to our title sponsor, finmo.

FIMO is a Canadian mortgage application document collection submission platform that's 
super easy for brokers to use.

It's got some cool features, smart docs.



It knows what docs your client needs based on the filthy apps.

It's got smart submission notes, pulls key data from the app and it's connected to Lender 
Spotlight which is the best tool for searching rates and guidelines.

Check them out by desk.com venmo and at the end of this episode I'll let you know how you 
can find to get on this list to get to work with Jim in October and really get good at renewals.

Hey Broker nation, Scott Packford here today.

I'm sure the infamous or famous Jim Trelucas and Jim has been on the podcast with me 
several times.

You go back and search his name, you'll see fantastic episodes I've done.

So we talk about a couple different things today.

First we talk about how Jim helped a client go from unconsciously incompetent to 
consciously incompetent to realize heck, I Don't know what I'm doing.

Maybe I should trust you to help me. I think this is a fantastic strategy.

Strategy, but also, dang, it's the truth.

Clients do not understand their choices from the mortgages.

We talk about a strategy that Jim uses for renewals, and this is a ninja strategy that I had not
heard of before.

And you're gonna love it. You're gonna be like, holy crap, this is amazing.

And then finally we talk about term selection and how it's changed for Jim in the current 
market.

Lots of great stuff in this conversation. I think you're gonna love it.

Also, I talked to Tom hall from Blue Mortgage about taking advantage of communication 
channels in this episode.

Before we get started, let me give a shout out to our title sponsor, finmo.

Finmo is a Canadian mortgage application document collection submission platform 



designed specifically for Canadian brokers.

It's super easy to use. I like things that are easy.

As the borrower is filling out the app, it's starting to know exactly what documents that they
need, sends them a notification when that app comes in.

You can then search Lender Spotlight for rates and guidelines to figure out where to send it.

And finally, when you go to hit submit, all of the key data from the application goes into the 
lender notes called smart submission notes.

It's extremely efficient. Make sure lenders happy.

Check it out@lendest.com Venmo check out this conversation I have with Jim.

Hey, Jim, welcome back to the show.

Hey, Scott, thanks for having me. How are things going?

Things are amazing, man.

So quite a few topics I want to discuss with you today and you can go back and listen to 
several of our other podcasts that we've done to kind of get a background story.

But I guess the first thing is, is that, you know, the market has obviously shifted.

Last year was crazy, and even halfway to this year was pretty great.

So could you share sort of some of the things you're doing to adjust to this current market 
reality?

And is your business down?

I mean, you know, what have you noticed, I guess those kind of two questions jammed 
together there.

Yeah.

So everyone's business is down from 2021 or they should be, right? 2021 Was an anomaly.

The industry was up 40%. Everyone should have been up at least 40%.



So up until, I want to say, end of August, we were spot on to 21. So pretty happy about that.

But September fell off about 30% from last September, and October fell off, I want to say 
about 40% from last October.

And as a matter of fact, this October was my worst October since 2008.

So it has come off, which was expected. Yeah.

So it's interesting, I was talking to Ron Butler.

He told me that he calls a bunch of owners of brokerages every month and just checks in 
and sees a.

And I'm like, so what do they tell you? And he goes, some of them lie to me.

They tell me, oh, things are amazing. And he's like, there's no way they're amazing.

You're full of crap. So I love that you're also a straight shooter and you don't tell people that.

Oh, yeah, like I'm still crushing it. It's like, no, it's down. That's okay.

So that's the situation. But then now what do you do about it?

So, you know, how do you market or what are you looking to do right now in this market, 
this situation?

Well, the first thing I do, everyone should be doing is do not compare yourselves to 2021, 
because that'll be, you know, not a pleasant comparison.

Compare yourself to 2020 and hopefully you're above 2020. That's the first thing.

But, you know, all systems go. Not much has changed for us, to be quite honest. Let me back 
up.

Typically my year, my business is typically 30% purchases, 40% refis and 30% renewals.

Last year was 40% purchases, but this year's come back to the norm for us, which is good, 
right?

It's somewhat diversified. So when sales are down 50%, well, my business is only down 
15%.



So that's the first thing.

Now, it doesn't help that on the refi side, a lot less people are qualifying at seven and a half 
percent, so that's make it a little more difficult.

But the renewal market is great and it's humming along nice.

And we've always had a pretty successful campaign going after renewals because how we 
do it and what we do, we beat the banks all the time because we're always in there a lot 
earlier than they are.

They're usually in six months before renewal. We go 13 months before renewal.

And most of our renewals end up through our discussion and then becoming a refinance 
anyway.

So we're still doing our campaigns like we have about 13 campaigns or so that we run in 
and out every single year.

I would say two thirds of my business are direct result of these campaigns and from my past
clients, if you will.

And a third of my business is new clients from our corporate contracts or lawyers or 
planners, you name it.

Right. So I would say, honestly not much has changed. We're doing what we've always done.
Right.

Okay, so I asked you a little with the renewal stuff and I know that this is just one of the 
many things that you do, but so you start at 13 months.

Can you give me some like strategies or tactics for how you can be successful at renewals?

Sure, sure.

So most brokers will go with their clients at renewals at four months because that's when 
they can hold the rate, which is logical.

Most banks however, will go with the clients six months before renewal and try and get 
them to renew early.

We go 13 months for our fixed clients, by the way, not the variable client.



And we do 13 months because that's the point at which we're able to hold the rate for four 
months and then execute the transfer, if you will, nine months less a day before renewal.

Nine months less a day.

That's a critical point because it's at that point where you can actually have a client pay 3 
months interest rather than interest rate differential.

And that's with most incumbent lenders because most do have what they call a six month 
product on a product sheet.

And that's where it works.

If you're moving a client from a lender that does not have a six month term, then clearly that
won't work.

So you must know who you're competing against. So that's how we do it and it works.

And this rising rate environment, by the way, and we've been doing this forever in this rate 
environment that we've been seeing since February, we've got a probably a 90% success 
rate.

So our clients can look at it and say, okay, so we call them 13 months before, hey, let's hold 
the rate.

Rates are rising. Sure, no problem, Jim, go ahead and do it.

We go back at them three months later or a month before it expires, we compare what's 
happened in the marketplace.

Clearly the rates have gone up quite a bit in the last five months.

Everyone's taken up on this offer, the penalty, three months interest. It's an easy win.

Closing files or have closed files the last couple months at 3.5%, whereas today they're 
getting five and a half percent, 5.7% average client saving 2% on a million dollar mortgage.

You can do the math on that. $100,000 Saving over the five year term.

Right.

And by the way, this is why having somebody manage their mortgage is better than having 
it just sit in.



Right?

Like you are doing this because you're managing their mortgage for them and you're not 
just like, hey, an order taker, you want fries with that?

And so like I can imagine when you talk to the client, let's.

Okay, let's say I'm your client and you get me the three and a half percent because you talk 
to me 13 months instead of waiting till four months out, you saved me a hundred thousand 
bucks.

And you're talking to the next client and say, hey, Mr.

Client, just so you know, this is the type of thing we do all the time.

In fact, in the last three months, we saved our clients X amount in interest because we are in
front of this.

It's going to be easy for me.

To be like, why am I going.

To trust someone else to do this for me?

Well, that's exactly right. And part of our proposition is that our clients are our clients.

Not that they would start in this process and closing that deal, but there are clients over the 
next 20 years.

So one of our promises is we're your mortgage mechanic for the next 20 years.

We'll take care of you. Your bank won't. And by the way, you'll never figure it out.

In other words, if you're on your own and you're shopping from bank to bank, you'll never 
figure it out.

They would never know to do that. Like, dude, I've been doing this for 16 years.

I would not think to deal with this whole idea of 13 months, nine months less a day versus 
the six month rate.

Like, you know, that's just some ninja stuff.



Like right now we can literally end the podcast and say, peace out, you know, peace out, 
we're out of here.

And you'd be like, okay, that was a great episode. Because that alone is pure gold.

Yeah, but wait, there's more. No, yeah, but wait.

Exactly.

No, I mean, we have an advantage as mortgage brokers.

You know, I talked to a lot of broker friends of mine and they're really upset about the 
marketplace.

We are no longer, and haven't been for a while, the lowest rate in the marketplace.

If you're competing on rate, you're done.

Unless, of course, you're one of the big guys who have built a great business on living on 40 
or 50 basis points.

But that's not most of them, right? Aside from those five or six firms, that's not us.

You've got to build a business around helping your clients.

And it's funny, through the coaching that we do under your firm, one of the things I talk 
about to the students is most people, when it comes to mortgages, they're what I call 
unconsciously incompetent.

In other words, they don't know very much in mortgages, however, they don't know that 
they don't know very much.

They're the most dangerous type because they actually assume they're the ones they don't 
even know.

They don't know anything. Yeah.

And our job, they're like the flat earthers.

No offense to anybody who's listening, who's a flat earth.

To be successful in this business, my approach is I've got to move these people from being 



unconsciously incompetent to the consciously incomplete.

I want them to know that they don't know squad, simple as that.

And there's a bunch of things that we do along the way.

When we get a client who comes in, hey, what's your best rate?

And we educate them and they walk out somewhat defeated. Somewhat defeated.

But at least they know they got me in their pocket. I'm their mortgage mechanic. Right?

So they walk in thinking they know a whole bunch. They walk out of this conversation 
feeling crap.

You know, Jim asked me, what are five other things that I care about besides rates?

And most people, it's a blank. They don't have anything to ask. And that's the first step, 
right?

And here, right off the bat, they know that they don't know very much. And did you know 
that?

It's my classic line, did you know that? Right. Well, didn't your bank tell you this?

Didn't your bank tell you that?

And again, I spent the whole 15 minute conversation trying to move them from 
unconsciously incompetent to consciously incompetent.

In essence, what we're doing is we're creating doubt. Right?

Client comes in, if you have a way of creating doubt in their mind.

And solving that doubt rate's not even a discussion.

No.

Because again, what would the rate difference had to have been for somebody who didn't 
have their mortgage managed?

And that's $100,000. You saved them because you're at the 13 month mark.



Like it's just not even mathematically possible.

Like it's not, you know, one of those wins alone, that is a game changing over the term of the
amortization of your mortgage.

One of those little tweaks is massive, right?

Yeah.

That's one of the campaigns is the early renewal.

We've got 13 that we do, you know, consistently in, year in and year out.

And they're pretty successful. Right. Here's the difference. All of us have a CRM tool, right?

All of us have Tools that go out and touch our clients.

My CRM tool touches my clients 50 times over the course of the five years. So what?

That doesn't mean very much. All that does is keeps me top of mind. Who cares?

Happy birthday, happy anniversary, change your furnace filter. Happy Halloween.

Who cares about that stuff? That means nothing.

We actually built a tool that actually creates value.

So through these 13 campaigns, when we touch a client, we're only touching them if there's 
value.

So what's value to a client? What's value? Value could be saving them money.

Value could be protecting them against themselves in the product and the marketplace.

And value could be finding and solving their pain points. Value. So what I call pop, Right.

For me, POP is pain points. Opportunity to save money and protect your clients.

There's a different framework within what we talk about in our training, but once you go 
down this path with a client, you've got them for life.

So that's what I'm doing. I'm pushing that agenda even further. Last year didn't push it as 
much.



I couldn't. Right. I got deals falling on my desk. Was too busy dealing with purchases.

So this year and next year even more so will be the year of my population.

What percentage of your clients are variable versus fixed, would you say?

Any given year. Between 85 and 90% are variable. Right.

So then is there a different strategy that you do for a variable client on a renewal?

I'm curious.

You must have something different.

Yes, yes, yes. Yeah. So that's the easiest one.

Everyone should be doing this, and that's looking through your database of anyone who's at 
a rate that's inferior to Teddy's marketplace.

Right, right. Also works out.

So we do that and you know, we have our system that runs and you know, I'll do a query on 
my spreadsheet, believe it or not, and.

I'll say, give me Excel, made by Microsoft. Thank you, Bill Gates.

That's right, that's right.

But give me everyone who's got three years or more to go at prime, minus 40 or less, boom, 
there's 200 names.

And all of a sudden.

And my system actually not only figures it out for me, but also runs my net savings so that 
my clients will be communicated and say, hey, how would you like to save 24,000 bucks?

So going back to my earlier point is that Inside of my CRM is these data mining activities 
that we do.

The 13 that we do, a client gets touched only if there's value to be found. Right.

We're not talking for the sake of talking, right?



Yeah. If they hear from you, it's because they actually you've got something useful for them.

Okay, So I think that's true.

I think that renewals are going to be a big piece of this upcoming market.

So what is your sort of expectation in terms of when is it going to come back?

Is this like, are we done? Are we all going to be working at Subway soon?

I would probably go work at Five Guys Burgers because I prefer those. But don't do that.

You see me, I'm £300. Jim, the burgers are delicious.

No, listen, it's tougher now. I mean, the deals are tougher. Qualifying is a lot tougher. Right.

But I tell you, we have a huge opportunity over the competition as a mortgage professional, 
if you're able to create a framework around your business so that you can prove to the 
client that you're their guy for the next 20 years and show value while you're doing it.

Look, mortgages renew every four and a half, five years. That business is not going 
anywhere.

Renewals are tougher because some don't qualify. Purchases are tougher because they're 
down.

But we have an advantage over the banks in that if we position ourselves as the expert and 
show what our value proposition is, you can't help but win.

So will it be slower? Yes, I think it comes back in the spring.

I think, you know, Canadians have a short memory, right?

So when they brought in, in Ontario, they brought in the GTA, the 416 land transfer tax.

So now we have two here.

So when they brought that in, the market actually didn't collapse, but it slowed down quite a
bit for a few months.

But a few months later it was back in business. People will adjust to this higher rate 
environment.



It will happen, it will happen.

As long as we have employment, which we do, I think we're going to be fine.

Yeah, I agree. Okay, that's really interesting.

And then so if you were like a newer agent or if you're like, you got a good sized database 
and I'm sure you've got money stuffed in your couch somewhere, what's the address?

We can come check your carriage for money.

But like, what would you say to somebody who's newer, what would your advice be for 
them?

If they're trying to like, they don't have the database that you have and they're trying to like,
you know, get through this.

So what I tell my students doesn't matter that you have a database, you're going to have a 
database.

At some point.

So I would say set it up correctly so that you could be doing this work three or four years 
out from now.

But more importantly, there are databases for you to go after. Your clients have databases.

So if you're working with a financial planner, for example, or a lawyer or a realtor, they've 
got databases.

And you could do this work on their databases and make them look like a hero. Right? Right.

That's what we're doing. We do this not only in our database, we do on our partner's 
database.

So that's what I would do if I was a new guy getting into this. That's exactly what I do, Jim.

That's exactly what you did when you started.

You went out and found somebody with a database and you said, hey, let's work out a deal.

And then you immediately went to 100 million in a year. Because isn't that correct?



Close. So I went out and got corporate clients and worked on their clients.

They didn't get their database, but, but.

Effectively those corporate clients had databases, they had clients.

And so you were selling one to many, one person, big list versus one.

To one to one to one.

You were like, hey, you got a list? If I get a relationship with you now, I can get 
opportunities.

So that's right.

Leverage your time. More of a shotgun approach, for sure.

So the other thing I would tell someone that's new in the business, hire an assistant, don't 
wait to hire an assistant.

A lot of us don't know what we were.

One of the things that we talk about in our program is I ask all my students, what do you 
think they're worth per hour?

It's easy to figure out.

So if you're making, pick a number, half a million dollars a year, you're worth 250 bucks an 
hour.

And you should not be doing anything that you can hire out for 250 bucks an hour or less.

So even if you're new hires a part time assistant.

This is a sales job, it's a sales job, it's not a processing job.

Our job as mortgage agents should be out there selling, selling yourself.

And so I would tell you, you know, try to minimize the amount of non sales activities that 
you do.

So I totally agree with you on the having an assistant and getting some help, like probably 



sooner than you think because it'll allow you to focus more on sales and marketing.

So if you were to hire, what would be the activities that you would start to get rid of as quick
as you could?

Like if you. Again, it's a transition. But what would you try to get rid of?

I mean if I was a new agent, I would definitely move off the document collecting and 
verification.

So that's kind of a mindless task trying to piece together down payment from account to 
account.

So any of the documentation piece, that's something we should not be doing as mortgage 
agent, right?

Yeah, I think anything to do with fulfillment. Brian Wiley Fulfillment, like.

Yeah, fulfillment basically from commitment to close.

And so one of the things actually Jim, I haven't told you this that we're working on is 
actually what I call closing specialists, which are somebody.

Because I think a mortgage broker should do three things.

Issue selling, they should come up with a strategy, they should hit the submit button and 
then they should move on and find the next one.

Once that thing is approved, somebody else can get that across.

Like it's got to throw the ball in the 20 yard line.

They're going to get in.

And so I have this idea that I think closing specialists are what most people need and it's a, 
it's a variable cost, it's not a fixed cost.

And it, I think that that actually would make a lot of sense.

So what you're saying if somebody's doing 15 or 20 million, the best way to go to 40 is just 
don't do any of those.

And oh, Ryan says on average it could be four to five hours per file on crap on the back end.



Oh, you sent me six of the same pages of my down payment, right?

Oh, you need to sign this, you need to like this, all that stuff.

None of that stuff is a good use of a broker's time if you can go out and find another client.

That's correct. Yeah. Yep.

Makes a lot of sense. Okay. And then what about interest rates?

What do you think?

I know you're not like really a, you know, predictions guy, but what is your sort of sense of 
like with the bank of Canada and what you're seeing?

Do you think that there's going to be some more hikes and like, I'm just curious.

I think so. Yeah, I think we will.

I think we'll see probably 50 or maybe even 100 basis points from down to the spring.

Data is showing that inflation has somewhat peaked, but we have strong job growth.

So that's not good. Well, it is good, but wages are climbing too quickly and that's, yeah, it.

Could keep inflation up because if there's a shortage of labor, the labor can then say give me 
more money.

Which means inflation doesn't come down because wages will Keep pushing them up.

Yeah. You know what? I suspect we'll have inflation for a while.

It'll be pretty sticky and rates will stay higher than we anticipate.

Right.

This will kind of be our new norm.

And I think the Bank Canada will come back and say 2% is no longer attainable.

3% Is our new benchmark.



It's kind of like when they say 40 is the new 30, right?

Yeah.

Say three is the new two and they'll say this is acceptable. Yeah.

I remember reading once, I watched a guy who talked about the way you deal with the debt 
problem, the national debt problem, as well as a consumer debt, you actually need to make 
$500,000 not worth what it was worth.

So if inflation actually makes debt less expensive because it's like all of a sudden, you know, 
$500,000 is not that much money.

Right. So that's something I never thought about.

Yeah. Inflation is your friend. If you're a borrower, inflation is your friend.

Right.

If you're a lender, it's not your friends, not so much.

Right, right. Interesting.

But with the high inflation, you want to borrow as much money as you can, get as many 
assets under your belt and let inflation take care of you.

And that inflation. Yeah, that's it.

And then the other part I heard about with the inflation, I don't know if this was a 
conspiracy theorist type dude, but basically inflation, because the taxation for people is 
based on income.

Right. If wages inflate, it's a way to increase taxes without having to increase your taxes.

Because now you're in a new tax bracket, you just, oh, your wages went up, you don't 
effectively have any more money because all the cost of your goods have gone up.

But you are now in a higher tax bracket and therefore you're now paying more tax.

So inflation also increases the taxes that people pay. Which I was like, that's an interesting.

Yeah, it does. Because you take the time and increasing the brackets with inflation. Right?



Yeah.

So, yeah.

And they're not going to make them lower. There's not like, oh, we're going to lower that.

Like, there's no way.

So like right now then if you're looking at, let's say you're a well qualified borrower, you got 
good income.

Are you still like bullish on a variable rate?

If I was your customer, I came in and said, I make good money. My PDFs is, you know, 20%.

I got like cash. What would that look like?

Yeah. So we're doing a lot of two year, one or two year fix.

Right now we're not doing very many five years. It's an issue.

Take a five year today when we believe in the future, in the, you know, three years from 
now, the fix might be a bit lower than it is today.

So a lot of one and two year fix. And for those die hard variables, we're doing variables.

You know, I still believe in the variable for the right clients, not clients who are tight for 
cash.

Having craft dinner once a week is okay, but four times a week is not so much.

So we bring our clients into two buckets.

We get calls every day from clients who are in agreement what they should do and we break
them in two buckets.

Those who are ticked off and they're paying a higher rate, but it's not a cash flow issue and 
those where it is a cash flow issue and that's more problematic client.

Luckily we don't have a lot of those.

Most of our clients are well to do and it's not really a cash flow issue.



Right. Okay, that makes sense. And why that's one to two year term you like.

Because it just gives you time for this whole cycle to go through and potentially then to.

Instead of committing for five years to.

Something that may be.

Yeah, exactly. Right. So five years is too long.

We think two years from now rates could be probably flattened out or start to drop.

It clearly is cheaper than the variable. Right. Prime goes up another half of 1%.

Let's say half a percent.

You're 6:45, you're over 6% on the variable compared to low fives on a two year fixed, let's 
say.

Right.

Yeah, that makes sense. Let me ask you this. So this is like NINJA level.

We've already hit Ninja Level 1. This is Ninja Level 2 on a two year term.

Are you reaching 13 months with them too or is it different?

Yes, 100%.

So really the two year term it's like 11 months. I feel like I'm like the matrix. I just.

Wait a second. Somebody reset. I figured something out. So it's actually even under 24 
months.

You're actually talking to them at 11 months. Right?

That's right. Right.

We're talking to 11 months later and we're holding the rate 11 months later because they're
in the same boat.

Right.



And that at some point if the rates keep going up, it'll definitely make sense to hold that rate.

It doesn't work in the flat or dropping rate environment.

It only works in a rising rate environment. It works really, really well.

Yeah. Okay. I Feel like I've just like uncovered another, you know, another layer there.

So tell me about your cohort. So you do, you know, the 10 months a month academy.

You're a coach, you've got rave reviews of people that have been in through your stuff.

We're just literally scratching the surface. A few of the things that you touch on.

Tell me about that. You started it how long ago? And then like.

Yeah, yeah. And so I think it's my second year doing it. I think it's two years now.

I gotta tell you, it's the funnest part of my week.

Dealing with clients is not that much fun for me these days. But dealing with.

You've done it tens of thousands of times now.

It's like, okay, you can do it, but can you get other people to go out and replicate some of the 
things that you do?

And I can see that being exciting because they come back and like, oh my gosh, Jim, you 
wouldn't believe, like, I did this and this is what happened, right?

Yeah, and that's exactly right.

Getting some more success in other ways besides funding $400 million of mortgages.

So it's going great. I mean, I've got great feedback.

The only negative part of doing the coaching, I know it's supposed to be an hour long.

I never go under two and a half hours per session.

It's just that there's so much in each of the sessions.

We break our sessions out, you know, six discussions. We talk about lead generation.



Week one, we talk about how to win a client and never lose a client.

Week two, we talk about processing. Week three, we talk about an important piece.

Week four is post close. What we do post close to have our clients come back.

So two thirds of my business are pot clients. There's a reason for that. There's a method to 
that.

And then week five is campaigns, which we talked about, the 13 month thing.

Today we have 13 of those. And week six is a free for all.

We talk about corporate structure, we talk about money, and we talk about how much 
money people leave on the table.

I'm shocked how many brokers don't know how much money they should expect per deal.

They trust the system, right?

Yeah.

And they don't keep a tally of what they got paid, what they should get paid.

But the lead generation is really popular right now, the week one, you know, a lot of the 
students are coming out and implementing some of the things I told them to do.

And they're building their business around, you know, I hate to say it, I'm not a big fan of 
realtors.

I know you are, but we don't deal with realtors.

We deal with these other professionals and doing the stuff we talked about, using the 
database, et cetera.

So it's going really well. Right?

Yeah, I know you're a fan of realtors. Like realtors, boo.

They can work and I think use realtors to build the database.

And if you can build a great process, your process will eventually attract enough clients that 



like, that's the goal.

But they're usually one of the fastest ways. It's not the only way.

You can go to financial advisors like you did.

You can go to, you know, accountants, you can go niche, whatever.

Lawyers. Right, Lawyers. The big one that my students are doing now. No one's talking to 
lawyers.

Right. It's a huge opportunity. Right, right.

That's interesting. So where can people find you online, man?

Like if I'm looking to try to find more gym, where do I go? Do you must or YouTube channel?
I don't.

Don't go to my website. If you want a good laugh, go to my website. But don't go.

I created that website 20 years ago. It's a complete joke. It's a piece of junk.

I do no social media whatsoever except for coming on ILNB and just typing in once in a 
while.

Social media is not my thing. If you want to reach me jimtvantmortgage ca just by email.

Simple, simple, simple.

Yeah, your website is pretty basic. You know how many new.

You know what, actually, let's talk about this for a second.

Like so many people get so hung up on they think that they got to have this fancy website.

If you don't know what you're talking about, you don't know how to find.

Like it really is irrelevant. Like it does not matter. I don't think. What are your thoughts?

You know, I'll go beyond that and say a lot of people get stuck in analysis paralysis and 
they'll sit there and try and figure out what systems to you should I use.

You name it. Whatever systems are out there, I think there's multiple systems out there.



People get tied up in trying to find the perfect solution.

And I always say success in anything is 90% execution and 10% planning.

So if you're waiting to plan something, I'll give you a very quick funny story.

So my, you know, being Greek, we're in a restaurant business and my dad had multiple 
restaurants.

And you know, my, my brothers and I would close the restaurant at 2 o' clock in the 
morning.

And I remember one instance when my older brother, we sit down, okay, we have 20 
activities to do to close the restaurant.

And my brother would sit down and he'd write a whole list.

Hey, thanks again for listening. And hopefully you got inspired just to really think about, 
okay?

You have to have a strategy for these conversations, and you have to have a strategy that 
you upd as the market changes, as the rate conditions change.

And I can tell you, Jim is a master at this, and he's been absolutely crushing.

About two thirds of his business are refi. Turning renewals into refis.

And if you want to find out about how and get him to actually open the kimono and give you
all the secrets, just track me down on Instagram, shoot me an email.

You can hit me up, say, hey, Scott, right? Send me the word, Jim.

Put me on the list, and I will get you on the list and send you an invite to that.

You're not going to want to miss that session.