Does your business have a hidden source of leads that you are not taking advantage of?

Hey, I'm Scott Beckford. This is the I Love Mortgage Brokering podcast.

And today is episode three where I talk to Taylor Atkins about how he is trying to double his
income per hour by reducing his time in his files but also becoming more efficient.

And we have three big things we talk about.

One, we talk about this source of leads that most people miss.

We talk about how to clone your best real estate partners and, and how to also focus on 
avoiding the shiny objects and doubling down on what works.

This conversation is fantastic.

We're also joined by Dan from Omwell at the beginning of this episode.

Before we jump into it, I want to give a shout out to our sponsor, which is Ownwell.

Omail is an amazing tool for Canadian brokers.

It allows you to send out these amazing reports that have shows the buying power home 
equity.

It's very engaging for clients.

And more recently they now have this feature that shows you all the hot opportunities and 
those hot opportunities are based on engagement.

So the people that are really engaging with your reports and also if they're there's a 
calculated savings based on their current interest rate and you know, how much time they 
have left in their mortgage.

And it's been printing money for a lot of brokers.

If you're interested, check out Omwell ca Scott and check out this conversation with Taylor.



Hey, Taylor, welcome back to the show.

It's like it's been a minute.

It's been, it's been a minute. Yeah.

We got Dan McDonald from Omo with us and so we're going to chat a little bit about that 
and then we'll get into some other stuff.

So at the beginning I always like to check in how's things.

Let's check in the numbers that we like to do that and then we'll, we'll chat with Dan about 
some what you're doing with Omwell, what's working and then we'll chat with Dan.

Yeah, so as of March 10th, I have 7.4 million funded gross paid out is 65,500 net paid out.

You know, and that's including paying out my team member and, and split and everything 
like that is 42,888.

There's 188 hours worked so far. So that's an hourly rate at 363.

So it is declining a little bit from last time.

But I think I, we put in quite a bit of work this last month to kind of fill the funnel a little Bit I
don't know what other brokers are like.

It seems like it's a little bit slower this kind of winter for me.

So yeah, the project was basically own.

Well, so on the last episode, you know, we kind of bounced some ideas around on how to fill 
those seats and.

Yeah, do you want to kind of talk about that real quick?

Yeah, let's talk about that.

Let's talk about what you tried because again, this is a running experiment.

We don't know how is going to go.

So some things are like wow, if it didn't work or it worked better.



And so walk me through what, what you, what you did and what, what the outcome was.

So one of your suggestions which I, I thought was like absolute killer was basically do a mail 
out to existing OwnWell clients because we, we worked with a bunch of those.

They were obviously like the product, the open rate's good.

And also highlight that Bricks has a $2,500 a month draw if there's a referral. Sent that out.

Only got two people confirmed that sent me referrals on that.

So not as good as we thought it was going to be. Yeah, did a social.

How many people did you send it to? Like what was the, how big is the list?

There would have been like about 140.

Okay, so that's like less than a 1% conversion from, you know. Okay, keep going.

Yeah.

And then I spoke about it on my, on the podcast Clone real estate podcast and our producer, 
you know, posted that on our, our page.

I got one directly from the audio podcast which was actually a pretty good lead.

And then I got three from the social media post and then where we got the other.

So we added 58 seats in the last 48, 40 days, which is I, I think was pretty good.

That's good. Yeah. Where do the other ones come from?

Yeah, so we got 53.

This was the, the obvious low hanging fruit from previous clients, whether it's funded or 
hasn't.

Like we have all those old mortgage statements already.

So if, if we, you know, underwrote a file and it didn't fund, we knew that they had.

But they were willing to give you their mortgage statement information.



Yeah, we had this for the previous years or if there was a client that had non subject 
properties that we just were overlooking.

So we put in all that data and so yeah, we've, we now added 58 people to own well in the 
last 40 days.

So I think next next steps would be the landing page which I'm sorry, Dan, I still have not 
been that proactive.

I do have a meeting with my financial advisor that I partner with.

And then as we discussed, like a mass mail out to my podcast mail out list, which might get 
some better traction.

And then buy.

How big is your email list for your podcast?

It's like 3500.

That's good. Yeah. And you haven't emailed him with this yet? No, no, dude, like what?

Yeah, so that's. That's next.

And then the last one we discussed was buying from a previous broker, like buying that 
introduction of.

Yeah.

You know, hey, Taylor's taking over the business.

Yeah. Interesting. How did that one go? Nothing yet on that one.

I'm just waiting for him to basically do the intros.

Yeah, I see. How big of. How big of a list will that be, do you think?

I think he only has about like 40 to 50. That would be relevant.

You know that funded in the last couple years.

Yeah.



Okay.

So, Dan, how's it going?

It's going great.

And actually talking to Taylor was what gave us one of the key insights that resulted in us 
building what we were just about to launch in the next week or so here.

So basically Taylor gave us a shout back in December and he's like, hey, Dan, like, we've had 
some great results.

Basically was able to generate an additional 44k in a month by proactively following up on 
some of the clients in Ownwell that apparently could save a bunch of money in interest after
penalties.

And so I asked Taylor Moore about that and learned about what he did.

And then it kicked off this whole process of me talking to several dozen of our customers.

And I learned something really, really interesting.

And it was that I thought that by just putting this information in front of homeowners, they 
were going to instantly act on it.

Some do.

But in Taylor's case, what he did that really moved the needle is he sent a personalized 
email touchpoint out to those clients.

I think there were 20 that could save the most in interest. And he got a crazy conversion on 
them.

So what that made me realize, and I think this is really important in this whole, like, age of 
AI, where we're trying to automate everything, is that you can empower people with 
information, which is important, but having an expert with an opinionated point of view 
actually reach out and say, hey, I think you should do this.

That's what gets people to act.

And I think there's like a kind of a deeper thing here with AI that like, that is what the role of
the mortgage broker is going to be in this age where you can automate all the number 
crunching and automate all the data mining is having that personalized outreach on top of it



that gets them to stop just sitting on the fence and take action.

So we're actually building a feature around that right now that basically automates that 
opportunity detection and follow up that Taylor's been doing manually and a lot of our 
other really top performing customers are doing manually.

That's now going to be an automated feature within the next week or so.

So pretty excited about that.

Amazing. Yeah.

So basically you're doing always take what your best customers are doing and then just 
figure out how to apply it at scale.

Right? Exactly.

So that's amazing. Any other like thoughts or this, Taylor, Dan or Taylor?

Well, I think there's another thing that we're seeing that's quite interesting is as we built 
this feature, not only are we surfacing those clients who seem to have like the most obvious 
refinance opportunities, but we're also surfacing those clients who are taking a 
disproportionate amount of action within their monthly reports.

You know, they're spending a disproportionate amount of time reviewing it and clicking on 
stuff that suggests that that person might be thinking of making a change soon.

Even though on paper you might think, hey, like, does it make sense for this person to refi 
right now?

Or you know, they're not in a position to move up or whatever.

As we know, life happens regardless of the market and where you're at in the mortgage 
cycle.

And so we're now servicing the most highly engaged clients to the broker as well, because 
we think that's an optimal time for them to just reach out and say, hey, like, noticed you've 
been really spending some time reviewing your reports.

That's great. Is there anything I can help you with?

So that's gonna be the focus this year, is just finding more and more of those, those signals 
where it makes sense for a human, the mortgage broker, to just touch base with something 



personal.

Right. And make it easy for them to be able to do it. So it's just like click a button and.

Yeah.

You know, and make the next step happen.

Well, to that, to that end, I learned something very surprising.

And over the past couple weeks I was talking to the owner of a brokerage about this feature 
and he explained to me that a lot of mortgage brokers, if they have lived through the COVID 
era at a time when deals were just flowing to them, a lot of the times these folks don't know 
exactly what to say to a client when they notice something like a big savings potential, net of
penalties.

Just because they haven't had to create these kinds of deals from scratch before, they're 
used to having them just flow to them.

So that was another interesting thing.

It's like, hey, we can surface this stuff, but unless you know what to say, you might not act on
it.

So that's another thing that we've implemented is this automated, you know, this automated
outreach and communication.

Amazing.

You know, something else that I stumbled upon this week was I get probably about five 
renewal calls a month, right?

Client just saying, hey, I'm with, you know, existing lender. Here's the renewal.

I probably don't have the best strategy, but I usually look at it like, are there any pain 
points?

Do we need to restructure debt, we need to lengthen on AM equity takeout, etc.

If there's not and you just want the best rate, then I usually confirm if it's a good offer or not.

Or I can take you to a different lender or I can help kind of leverage that bank.



But it just seems like such an empty conversation at the end.

If it's like, oh, congratulations, like, I helped coach you to get a better rate.

Um, although I'm getting referrals from them in the future because they want, you know, 
somebody honest and, and trustworthy on their team.

Now, ownwell is such a great piece of that is like, okay, yeah, take that renewal and run.

That's an amazing offer. I can't touch that.

However, once you get that renewal locked in, why don't you send me over the 
confirmation?

I'm going to now upload you to ownwell.

We're going to track this in the background for you because there will be an opportunity in 
the next, you know, 12, 24 months, whenever that comes up, that's good.

But like, that's kind of the value add instead of a empty conversation where I spend 20 
minutes kind of just coaching someone.

Now I can finish with, hey, I have your mortgage statement.

Right.

Like, I'm just going to input this for you, so.

Right.

Yeah.

You can continue to build that relationship over the long term. It's amazing.

Dan, any kind of last words, anything you want to, like, share to Taylor or our audience?

I think it's pretty cool what you're working on right now.

Yeah, no, well, I've been really inspired by, like, Taylor and a number of our other 
customers.

They're really, like, pushing the limits of what's possible with getting people into OwnWell 
and I guess what I wanted to share is I know that, you know, getting homeowners to act is, 



isn't easy, but I think that's the opportunity.

Right?

Like, there are so many homeowners out there right now who are not getting any 
communication from, you know, either their, their bank or their broker or their realtor.

And I just see that as such a massive opportunity and like some of these experiments that 
and Taylor are trying is so cool.

And I, I, I do not see many people doing that type of thing right now.

So I think for the type of person that's motivated to try stuff, it, it's, it's massive.

And I'm, I'm excited to see what, what you guys do next.

Yeah. And some of them are going to work better than others.

Apparently that didn't, did not work as well as I, We, I, both of us thought this was a killer 
idea, so we'll have to, maybe we can retool it.

Taylor. We can chat about that and then try something else, but you know. Yeah. Anyway.

Well, thanks Dan, for joining us. We appreciate you.

Thanks, guys. Take care.

See you, Dan.

Bye.

Okay, so, yeah, yeah, awesome.

Go. Sorry.

Go ahead, Taylor.

Yeah. So do you kind of want to talk about like, next. Yeah. Roadblocks we're running into, I 
guess.

Yeah. Okay. What, what would you be your big roadblock right now?

Yeah. So one thing I think it's just, it is a bit of a slower start to this year for me.



Last year was, was a bit busier.

I would love to bring on like one more good producing referral partner specifically.

Probably like a real estate agent. I, I generally do not go after that.

I just let business be there.

But since we've now built up, like again we spoke about this last show is we have the AI 
implementation now that the document collection review, organization labeling is, is up and
running.

It's in, yeah.

You know, there are some bugs in it, but we're working through it.

It's just beta, but like it's good to go now. So now like my team.

How much time is that saving you? How much time is it saving you per file, do you think?

Not saving me any time.

Right.

It's, it's my team member. It's probably saving her, you know, two to three hours a file.

And you know, we, we funded like a hundred files last year, but there was probably 150 to 
180 applications.

Right.

So you got to look at a lot of documents and you, you have a high, like document, I would say
application to fund Ratio compared to some folks.

And so it. But it still turns into a lot of work for nothing.

Yeah.

So now that we kind of have that capacity opening up on her side, I would like to try and 
bring someone in to fill that funnel a little bit.

So. Yeah. Any ideas? And I don't want to just like,.



Yeah, I have some ideas on real estate agent stuff. So if you're thinking in particular.

So you have some real estate agents right now that you're working with, right, that, that 
trust you?

Yeah.

How many would you say refer you? More than five clients a year? Any.

Probably, like really just one that feeds one ton.

Right. And is it your. It's probably your podcast host guy?

No, it's not.

No.

No.

Okay. Really?

Okay.

So that's the funny thing that's, that's, that's interesting. Okay. So there's an opportunity 
there.

Hey, dude, like, let's do more business. Unless he doesn't have it.

But the second thing I would think is, is that this, this your top referring person.

The one strategy I found work works well is you go to them and say, hey, look, if you got 
clients in another, you know, we live in.

You live in Kelowna. But if you got clients in Vernon or other places, they go, who do you 
use?

And so what you do is you ask for introductions from who they would refer, who they've 
successfully referred, people that they trust.

So if you've got Realtor a who's you that you have a good relationship with, they're 
obviously good at what they do.



If they have somebody that they refer to in another market, people that move to Calgary, for 
instance, you know, people that go back and forth or go to Vancouver, they probably have a 
connection there and say, hey, would you mind introducing me?

Because I like working with you. And if you have a good, if you respect them, I'm probably 
going to.

Work well with them.

And it's, it's the easiest way to duplicate your best partners because.

And you're not competing with them because it's in a different market.

Like they're not going to be selling houses in this external market.

Right.

So interesting there. I actually, I should have my Alberta license any day now.

So that's a great, good option.

That's.

And the Alberta market is a little bit, you know, it's still not like it was, but it's definitely 
more rope, it's more going on there than in B.C.

At the moment. So I would, if you go to your realtor partners that you know here in B.C.

And I would say all of them, even the top ones, but the ones that refer you a little bit and ask 
them for introductions to these, to their Alberta realtors and then reach out to them because
that would be the way to like the warm introduction.

And in a best case scenario they send an email intro so that if you know your realtor buddy 
who sends you all the business, he's going to email you his Calgary connection and he's 
gonna say you guys need to chat and then you jump on a call.

I know that your chances of converting that person to a referral partner are pretty high if 
you get them, especially if you get that warm of a referral.

So that's what one of the ways I would get. I would look at increasing the realtor partner list.

The second thing you could do is you have a financial planner too, right?



Like then how much business do you get from your financial planner?

Yeah, probably about 30 funded files a year.

Right.

So I would go to your financial planner and I'd say to him, him or her, I don't know who it is 
but say, hey, do you have any real estate agents that you manage money for?

First off, it's probably, probably a small number if like I hate to say it but like.

Because most real estate people are very real estate.

But if he has real estate agents in his book of business that could be somebody you want to 
talk to because again there's high level of trust.

But also the fact that they have a financial planner says a lot about how they think about 
money and how, because I know how you think, you think like an investor.

You're, you're not just a short term kind of guy.

And so the other person I would go to is your, these key people of influence and get 
introductions, introductions are always better than cold calling.

And then get, if you can get a warm intro, whether they send you a text, joint text or joint 
email and then you follow up, that's going to be the best possible way to basically get some 
high quality partners at the moment.

Okay, yeah, I like that one for sure.

Yeah.

So both of those are like kind of the first step and beyond that, I mean you could just start 
like expanding.

You could look at, you know, if we wanted to go another level deeper.

You've got a bunch of clients that have worked with, you know, the listing agent on files that
you have.

You can go back to the listing agents that you, they've interacted with you.

So it's always easier to you, you guys have good communication, good follow up.



That would be another way you could do it if you found somebody where it's okay, these 
people.

But you know, and the other thing is that you might need more than one.

Like at the current market, you may need to have to, to in order to maintain the growth that 
you want to do, you may have to have more than one.

Like, you may not be able to just be, get that one partner.

The only way that could be one is if it was somebody who had a team and they have a lot 
more opportunities, like more swing swings at the bat than, than, than that could be one 
way to do it as well.

Okay, here's a shiny object for you.

Okay. I love shiny objects.

Yeah. Okay. What are your thoughts? Have you, have you heard about this at all?

Um, any, any worthwhile time spent on Reddit, whether that's like Reddit ads or trying to 
insert yourself into conversations there.

Like, I don't know much about Reddit, but now AI essentially when you Google something is 
now starting to populate Reddit a lot more.

And Reddit seems to be a community that you upvote, right?

Like somebody puts a comment, people vote it up or down, gives it confidence.

So I'm trying to look at like high conversion in terms of if my name's in Reddit, whether 
that's ad spaces or, or just conversation pieces, would that lead to better inbound leads that 
convert better?

I, I, my answer would be yes. How to do it? I don't, I would not be that.

We'd have to find somebody who's an expert who's actually, I think a lot of people that are 
successfully generated business from it.

But I do think it would work. Whether or not how I wouldn't be able to tell you how.

I think I would try to solve that problem.



Like the other ones that I talk about know that I've seen this work. This.

I don't know about Reddit.

I do see a lot on my Instagram lately about advertising on Reddit has been useful.

But I'm like, I'm in my head, I'm thinking, why are you advertising to me on Instagram to go 
advertise on Reddit?

Because, you know, I'm like, I'm clearly it doesn't work as well as you say, or you wouldn't 
need to be advertising on Instagram for me to go advertise on Reddit.

I just always find those, those posts kind of funny. Like, all right, yeah, this is all,.

All new to me. I had no idea about really Reddit.

So I went on there last week and I was like, oh, Just like Google Mortgage broker Kelowna.

And my name popped up and there was four votes.

I'm like, interesting, okay, how do I, how do I gain some momentum on that?

So I did reach out to Reddit. I'll, I'll let you know. But I would think you could do.

Is you could like, you could actively, you know, if you have clients that trust you, you could 
ask them to go and like, you know, hey, I'm, I'm making an active effort to be more visible on
Reddit.

If you respect what I do, I'd really appreciate, instead of sending them to do a Google review 
for you, maybe it.

We send them to a Reddit and say, because that's getting fed into AI, you know, I'm sure 
Google reviews will play a part of it, but does it matter as much?

Maybe it's better to have it on there then.

Yeah.

And so you could use the same process that you would to generate reviews and referrals or 
reviews on other platforms.

Yeah. And yeah, again, like if anyone's listening, I'm sure there's someone that's tried this.



Like, let me know if this is a terrible idea or not.

Because reach out to Taylor if you, if you've got a, you've got a Reddit strategy that's actually
effective.

And I suspect. Did your AI guy tell you what this.

No.

Or.

Okay. Because I was like, this sounds like something he would come to you with. I got an 
idea.

Yeah, it's crypto. I know, I'm kidding.

Yeah, totally. Okay, so that's kind of like the business development side.

Although, like, I hate working on that side of the business because I don't, you know, I, I just 
want to take the low hanging fruit.

But I am going to commit to, to trying to drum up one more referral partner in terms of 
other things that are kind of bogging down.

So I guess proactively looking forward, my next thing that kind of slows down in the process
would be my budgeting.

So I do personalized template budgets for clients.

They'll send me the mls, I'll underwrite it, I'll put in purchase price, down payments, 
interest rate.

Like I feel it's a very good client ad service, but I just don't like, I'm not super excited to do it.

You know, it only takes five minutes and I record a quick loom. Video.

Video, yeah. Can you, could you not use AI to help with this though?

I, I think, I think there's a couple things you could there.

The other thing I was looking at and I, I spoke to Jeff Mudrick a month ago.



He's got his Rate Guard Pro and Grade My Mortgage software.

Yeah, he's kind of now like taken like because we use the same budgeting Excel style and 
like put that into a very nice looking platform where he can also give access to, you know, 
clients access to that and they can kind of play around with numbers.

So I'm, you know, Jeff's a busy guy, but I am knocking on his door to get onboarded because 
I feel like there's a lot of automation that he's implementing there that even if it carved out 
five minutes I can still do that video.

But yeah, that's kind of right.

Yeah, he's got some cool things that he's, he's, he has definitely built and that could be a way
to do it.

Yeah, I mean there's that but I, I gotta think like there's, there has to be a way to use AI to 
help speed this up either through not using a spreadsheet, a bit more robust of a platform.

But I also think because these videos you do are the same all the time and you could 
eventually I was thinking about this.

I wonder if you could use something like hey Gen. To have it record the video.

But I guarantee you people wouldn't be able to know it's you. Like I think if it was done 
right.

What is like having, having is AI avatar. That's you, your voice and it.

I had, I was at a presentation last week and a guy said okay, I'm going to show you these 
three videos.

I want you to tell me which one is real, which, which two are AI.

Well, and he had us all vote no, it was like the room was split. There was three of them.

30, 30, 30. They were all AI. We couldn't tell at all.

None of them were like crap, these are so good.

So I have thought about that.

So I guess like my question is with that then do you then prompt it and do a quick hey, this 
is what I want you to talk about.



Like I want you to say hey, congratulations, you're exempt for property transfer tax.

Well, here's what I would do.

I would build, I would build a custom GPT that actually creates the script.

And so I just recently created a custom GPT which was work.

A lot of our agents send out, you know, weekly emails to, to their realtor partners, referral 
partners and they create as of usually a video problem is like what do I say?

I don't know what to.

So I created this custom GPT that allows them to just go in and talk to this thing and tell it a 
story.

It'll ask questions and then it creates the hook.

The, you know, the story the call to action creates. It's like, it works.

And it's using a thousand viral hook template that I found from some really smart people.

Plus it's using these like the best copywriters and like you are the best cop, like at this type 
of thing.

And it's incredible how good it is.

So I have to think that there's a way to build a custom GPT that would actually be able to 
create, because what you're doing is it can be repeated.

So then the custom GPT, you'd put the data in and it would go.

And it would spit out, here's the script.

That script would then go into hey Gen. And it would record the video that you could send 
out with that.

With that. That would be just like you do. Like, this is absolutely doable.

Interesting.

Yeah. And so the tools you're gonna, you're gonna need three tools that I can think of for 



this.

One would be the custom GPT, which I'm happy to help you build.

I'd work with you on that, like, help you figure that out because I. That part would be.

I think that could be interesting.

The second would be 11, I think it's 11 labs, which is gonna basically copy your voice.

It's gonna sound just like you because. And then the third would be hey Gen. Which is the 
video.

So you'd be still a little in a little. And plus, it's only such a small video.

Like if you're doing a loom video, it's just, you're in the corner. It's not like a full on.

No one's going to have a hot clue. But you can still review the scripts.

But what would happen is the custom GPT would pull out the script, would create the script 
that you then put in there and it would.

The AI avatar would just record it for you, you know, and. And then here's this.

I was thinking about this as when you said to me, do you have other ideas?

I think that, you know, your admin person could run this whole thing. Like, you don't.

You wouldn't even need to touch it.

Yeah, good point.

I was thinking like, oh my God, sometimes I'm just like, ugh, do I need to like take off a ball 
cap and throw on a different shirt so I can record like three budget videos today or do I?

But like, this is a whole new level, right? Like, if somebody else can just.

If you can build the scripts and.

It gets done okay, it'll build you the scripts. I guarantee you. If we work.

If we could work on the custom GPT together to create what, what that output looks like, 
and then that output gets put into hey Gen. And it just creates.



It'll create it. And it. Yeah, it's really good.

And I don't, I can't imagine that you're kind of like, especially given that it's a small window 
of a video.

It's just in the corner. There's no world they're going to know. There's you.

You can barely tell now if you see it big, let alone if it's just a little thumbnail.

Right.

God, I hope my clients aren't listening to this podcast.

Well, here's the thing. They just want the information. At the end of the day, they.

It's still your brain that has to go into putting this whole system together. Yeah, right.

It's still your brain. And I would still check it.

I mean, I think especially for the first while, you're going to want to check the outputs and 
make sure they make sense because it's not like it can always be, but I think a custom GPT 
could, could potentially make that work.

Okay.

You know.

Yeah. I love that. So maybe one other quick question.

Have you been speaking with any brokers or any technology for, like, I know underwriting 
AI people have dropped in broker kits and been able to like, ask IT questions and have some
feedback on, you know, hey, where in the broker kit would I find this, Any, any software 
development on the underwriting side of things?

Not specifically to, like, completely, you know, not have the knowledge for.

But again, if somebody else on the team has some basic questions, it just.

Yeah, we, like, I don't, I don't know of anything specifically that does that.

I mean, I think that, yeah, that's not. It would be an, like, what.



What problem are you trying to solve with it?

Just out of curiosity, what would you be trying to solve?

So, like, if my current business partner, like, if she has, you know, general questions about a 
specific lender instead of coming to me and me circling back, or us having like a shared 
Google Drive where we kind of like type some notes down, it would just be like a chatbot 
almost for her.

And then if we bring on somebody else, you know, it again allows them to kind of ask some 
of those questions without.

Right.

You know, utilizing somebody else's time.

Right.

I mean, I, I don't know of anything that exists Currently, the problem is, is that we both 
know that even though you have policies, there are exceptions that you get, sometimes 
based on your relationship, sometimes based on.

So there's. There are. Except, like, it would give you the policies. I don't know how you 
would.

It would bake in exceptions. Like, you know, like.

That's more the human element, it feels like, to me. Whereas. But you could. You get.

You could get pointed in the right direction, I suppose.

I mean, we've talked about this because our underwriting coaches look at hundreds and 
hundreds of files and on all different varieties would be interesting to feed that into some 
sort of an AI model where we take that.

But again, there's exceptions and it's just change. How do you. Yeah, it changes. Right.

So it's not. It's. I'm not sure that that's the. Yeah, I don't know.

I don't have a. I don't have a solution for that I can think of or anything that I've seen.

I know that there's underwriting being done in the US in particular, but they have database.



They have access to more data than we do.

So in Canadian markets, there's a lot of stuff that you can't just go and pull some of these 
employment information from.

You know, one of these big payroll companies, they won't let you do that, you know, so 
there's a lot of information that's kind of hidden.

And so us as brokers have to gather it all. Part of our value prop.

As we value, gather all this information so that we can then package it to send it to a lender.

But in the us, from my understanding, a lot of that stuff, you can click a button and it can 
confirm your income because it'll just go to one of these payroll companies.

Yep, that's correct. Done. You're like, wow, that was easy. Right? Whereas it's.

We have more PETA rules here. So I think.

But in any case, I don't have a solution for you there, brother, but I think there might be 
something on this or even just it.

Maybe you can't get rid of the. You.

You can't eliminate the entire video process, but maybe there's a way to cut it down some 
more or make it run smoother, faster.

So that could be interesting thing for.

Us to play with.

Okay. So for now, I'll. Yeah, I'm gonna work hard to onboard another referral partner 
through my.

I think you should go for more than one. I'm just gonna push you on.

Only because, like, you don't know, you may have to onboard, like, honestly, you might want
to onboard four to get one good one.

Because you don't know, like, people will say to you, oh, yeah, for sure, Taylor, I'm your.

I'm gonna do it. And then you're like, and if by the time you realize that they're not.



They're not referring, it might be like, I wasted another month. So I would.

I would make the number bigger and then it'll all shake out to the best one will show 
themselves within, you know, 60 days kind of thing.

That's the only thing I would say. Like, don't, don't. Just don't be like, I got one check.

Because you can always, you know. Yeah, like, yeah, that's. That's how I would take it 
anyway.

That's what I would do.

Okay. And then, yeah, you and I will work on this custom GPT.

Yeah, awesome.

Cool.

I'll reach out to you after and we'll chat about that.

Okay, sounds good.

Okay, thanks, man. Always fun chatting with you about these and looking forward to our 
next talk.

Okay, thanks, buddy. We'll talk to you soon.

Hey, thanks again for listening and hopefully you were inspired by that conversation.

And you know, I always love talking to Taylor.

He's a smart guy and he's always finding ways to improve things. A couple of things.

First off, if you are listening to this and you want to get in part of our.

We do a mindset call every day and Monday to Friday, you can join that.

Hit me up on social or click on the link to this. And we go through different books.

Right now, the book was depending on.

When you're listening to this, we're going through the book exactly what to Say, which is 
this fantastic book on scripting.



And there was one made for real estate agents, but there was never one made for mortgage 
brokers.

And so there's a group of.

There's a group of us of mortgage brokers that are going through this and essentially create 
reworking that book into scripting for mortgage brokers.

It's a powerful program. If you're interested, check that out.

As I always say, there's no problem in your mortgage business someone else hasn't already 
solved.

Your problem is finding the answer when you need it.

This podcast is designed to provide some of those answers.

Thanks for listening and I will see you on the next episode.