Stop patching your business. Build a team that scales. Most brokers think the problem is 
leads. It's not real. Problem is time. And the best way to get your time back is to hire an 
underwriter who can help you with a big chunk of your file processing.

In this episode, I talked to Nate Atkin, and this is episode two of the Hundred Million Dollars
Journey. And right now, the problem that Nate's trying to solve is how do I get back time so I
can continue to grow? Because he's very good at marketing and he's good at getting 
business.

And so what he needs to do is find a great underwriter. And so in this episode, we dive into, 
where do you go look for a great underwriter? There's probably some places that you 
haven't thought of. When you do find that underwriter, how do you interview them? What 
questions do you ask?

We dive into and I give very specific examples on the right kind of questions to ask to help 
you find the right candidate. And then finally, we discuss compensation.

And I really think if you're thinking about hiring or you want to hire in the next six months, 
you're going to want to listen to this episode. If you're an amazing underwriter, I just put it 
out there. But you can definitely reach out to Nate as I think he'd be a great dude to go work 
for.

Hey, I'm Scott Beckford. This is I Love Mortgage Brokering podcast, and each week we bring 
you guests to help you and scale your mortgage business. I'm doing this series with Nate on 
how to scale his business from 39 million last year to 100 million. And each.

Each month we're going to do an update on where he was, where he's at in his pipeline, as 
well as what problem that we're working through on solving. And very. I'm very excited 
about this series as I think it's like getting to look over the shoulder of what we're doing.

You can apply what works and what doesn't. So the whole. We're not. This is not. I'm not 
saying to you this is the only way to do it. I'm just sharing with you my own personal 
experience, approaching hundreds and hundreds of brokers and looking under the hood of 
a lot of businesses.

So I will give you all the knowledge that I have, and Nate's a very smart dude who runs a 
very capable businesses outside of the mortgage space. And so between the two of us, we're 
going to give you all the value that we can so that you can Leave and go.



I'm going to apply this or I'm going to avoid that because I've heard you guys talk about it. 
So that's the goal of this series. If you like it, hit them up, say hi to them. Shoot him a note. I 
know he'd appreciate it. And I again, same with me. If you want to find me on Social, hit me 
up.

What do you think of these episodes? I'd love to hear from you. Before I jump into this 
episode, I want to give a shout out to our sponsor.

OwnWell oh is an amazing tool for Canadian mortgage brokers to create conversations with 
their database around their home equity or on their buying power, whether they can 
refinance. It basically creates report, an equity report that gets sent on a monthly basis. The 
open rates are 60 to 80%.

Clients absolutely love them and it creates conversations. Check them out at omwell ca and 
check out this conversation with Nate. Hey, Nate, welcome back to the show.

Hey. Hey. All right, Scott. Good to be back.

I. I'm excited to have this discussion. So this is episode two of the $100 million Journey with 
Nate Atkin. And before we get into go back and listen to the first episode, we really do a 
deep dive into Nate's business, where he's come from.

You know, we'll put a link to the previous episode in this episode. So just so you're aware, 
you can always find it. But maybe give us a quick. At the time of this recording, it's January 
20th, we're going to start over these episodes with a pipeline update since the goal is 
growth.

So we'll do updates throughout. Then you guys can kind of look over the shoulder. And then 
we're going to talk about today under you're in the process of hiring an underwriter. Kind of
questions you're asking what kind of process you're using and then compensation.

And our whole goal with this, if you're listening, is that I'm going to Nate and I are going to 
have a discussion. I'm going to share some perspectives and ideas of what I've seen work 
and not work and the reasons why Nate's going to decide what he works best for him and 
his business.

And then you guys get to watch how that plays out in real life. But also you listing can take 
this and copy whatever makes sense for you. We want to make the whole goal of this is just 
that you leave going, okay, I'm going to that I'm going to copy this part and not that part that
makes sense.

All right, so give me an update, brother. Where are you at right now? January 21st. What 



does the pipeline look like right now?

Yeah, absolutely. Good to be back, Scott. Pipeline is actually happy to report that. 
Interestingly enough, I had a file the first time that came in the same day I submitted it, got 
it approved, and got a broker complete all within the same day. That was awesome.

Amazing.

That was the first. Yeah, that was the first for me.

Yeah.

So where we are right now, we got about $1.2 million broker complete and got another 
800,000 submitted, got about $4,900,000 in pre approvals. We're looking at. And got 
another $3 million in applications received. Okay.

So we'll check into those periodically. And again, this is 20 days into the year. All right, so 
right now, last time we chatted, where you're at is. Okay, we need to get some of Nate's time 
back. You are great at generating business.

And we'll talk in future episodes about some of the stuff that's working for you, you know, 
but you need time. And so the key is underwriter. So walk me through where you're at in 
the process and what's. What you've been doing, what's. And then we'll discuss from there.

Yeah, I'm looking forward to this chat, Scott, because I need your. Your coaching here at the 
underwriter hiring part. It's been. It's been fun.

Like I said last time we spoke, I've learned a lot from the people I've spoken to in 
interviewing them and finding out if they're going to be a good fit for us, for me, and 
likewise, that mutually reciprocated relationship.

But it's kind of sparked some really cool questions that I've thought of as I sat back and 
reflected and said, well, there's a lot. I thought I was prepared with my interviewing 
process, but then realized that there's other things I really want to dive deep onto.

And I came up with kind of a list of questions. I thought that, hey, it would be great for me to
ask you what you think about these questions, and maybe there's a better way I could 
formulate them or maybe you can elaborate on them and have better questions. Right.

So if you're cool with that, I'd love to kind of ask you about that.

Yeah, let's go. Let's get it. Here's. I'm going to ask one question before is where. Both. Before 
the questions is, where are you doing your job postings? Because, like, that's going to. It's 



kind of like the top of the funnel.

And what is the response been like on those job postings that you've been doing? Because 
that's like, that helps kind of go from here.

First off, anybody who's listening who, who wants to connect, reach out to me.

Yeah, maybe you're listening to this going, I want to be an underwriter for somebody who's 
doing 100 million a year. This could be so. Yeah, that's very clever.

And you want to have a lot of fun.

I like what you did there.

Yeah. And if you want to have a lot of fun, you want to step up your game in life in general, 
reach out, man. Because we, we're going to, we're going to kick some ass. Everyone I've ever
worked with, we kick ass. So anyhow, question is, where.

So first off, internally within our brokerage, you know, we have a resource inside BRX which
is phenomenal for anybody who doesn't know as a brokerage. We have all sorts of 
resources internally where, whether it be fulfillment or underwriting or what have you.

So internally with the brokerage and then also without crossing any lines, being very 
diplomatic about potentially reaching out to lender partners or banks that may have a 
relationship with where there might be underwriters that have expressed interest in 
potentially not working for the bank or the lender anymore.

So there's some opportunities there and also too, just a little bit of advertising, nothing 
major, but I try to stay away from LinkedIn because a lot of it I find to be kind of a pain in 
the ass. But indeed is really the only one I focused on that is outside of those other two 
avenues.

I love this. This is the first discussion we're getting the question so what, what, what I've 
seen work and the lender partners is absolutely a great avenue to explore. One of the best 
underwriters that we found when I was working with Jules is, was somebody who worked 
at a, a lender.

Here's the thing I think about.

They're.

If they're going to leave anyway, we might as well, you know, if they're thinking about that 
they want to change and if we can get them, fantastic. And so having that discussion with 



somebody that you're working with, the only downside is you do lose that.

If it's an underwriter that you currently work with, you lose them on the lender side. And so 
that happened to us. But, you know, that's a risk I'm. Yeah. And that's a good problem to 
have. So there is definitely one angle would be, is there somebody on the lending side.

Now, the pros and cons, I think of hiring somebody on the as a lender, if somebody worked 
at a lender, they typically are more wired for an employee relationship. They probably don't
want to go out and be you. They don't want to be you.

They've already chosen, shown with their behavior that they're the kind of person who 
wants to work on part of a team. So you can get a really good team oriented. And I know like
Rene Hughes has hired almost all ex bankers. I know James Lohan hired a lot of ex bankers.

So, so some of these people have very good teams. They hire ex people that work, not just 
bankers, ex lender, people that work at lenders. And so you get this person, you can create a 
great win, win for both of you.

Now, the only downside I would say to having somebody is that they may not have as they 
can underwrite, but they may not have the robust knowledge of underwriting across all the 
other lenders. So like, they'll obviously know their previous lender if they work at whatever,
you know, institution.

But sometimes there can be a gap. And so as long as you have a plan for how to fill that and 
if they have the motivation to fill it, that's the other piece, then it's not a problem. If you get 
the right person, then they're going to be like, I want to learn these other lender partners as 
well.

And so that would be the thing. So I think that's a good idea. In terms of the other thing I 
would say about this, if I'm being really practical, is most of their phone lines are recorded.

And so when we hired the person that we ended up taking, lender partners, we love you, 
but, you know, this is how it worked out. I said, hey, can we talk on yourself? Right? I'm not 
going to have that conversation.

Yeah, good point.

You know the big line because, because here's what I did. I mean, I stepped into it. I said to 
them, like, hey, like, I know, like, because they were, they were absolutely a beast at the 
place. They work like they crushed so many files. Like, this person's got work ethic.

So they already showed me how they worked with me. I didn't have to, I didn't have to. I 
was like, they got work ethic. And then the second thing was I'm like, how much? At a scale 



of one to ten, how much like working here? And she's like nine and a half. And then I'm like, 
is this line recorded?

She's like, yes. Okay, so you, like, you want to take that, you want to be respectful. I'm not 
saying everybody here should go and steal their lender partners, but the reality is that the 
lenders will find someone else too. Like, people turn over, over, they go to different lenders 
and whether.

So the thing is, is that if a lender loses a underwriter to a high, high producing broker, 
they're probably going to get a lot of business from that broker because that lender already, 
the broker, they already know that relationship.

So it's actually versus if that underwriter goes to a different institution, there is no, it's dead.
There's no more. So I think it's actually I'm making the case that it's better. So that would be.
I think that's a smart idea.

Great.

And then in terms of posting, so have you, you said LinkedIn, have you done, have you done 
anything on.

Indeed.

Or are you still just kind of planning that out?

Indeed is the one that I'm going to prepare. I've already been preparing kind of how to post 
it on there, but that's the one platform that I'm thinking of going to, not LinkedIn.

Right. Okay. So what I found with when it comes to these online platforms that you're doing 
postings on is that I like to put an extra step in place for people in order to make sure 
they're not resume spamming me. Because lot sometimes people will apply for.

And then you spend a lot of time sifting through resumes of people that aren't, they're just, 
they're not really serious. They're just applying because they click the button. It's very easy 
to apply for a lot of jobs through these platforms as a employee.

And so what I like to do is in the, in the description somewhere say, hey, if you're interested 
in this, you need to go here and fill out this form or something. And then that extra step, 
they don't typically, they don't like, they don't usually let they. We used to put links in the 
forms.

We can't put. I don't think they let us in most cases now, but I would say to them, hey, and 
it's just that extra. It's basically if you have hustle, you're gonna, you're gonna show me, 



right? Like put a, put a little obstacle in place.

Okay.

And if you, if you do that obstacle, then it's like, okay, you. Now I'm gonna, I'm gonna 
prioritize. Looking at your res. You're, you're serious about this position versus someone 
who isn't. And if they don't think they should do it and they don't.

I'm like, you're also showing me the kind of person you are that you're probably not going 
to follow a process here either. Right. In the hiring.

And it's an internal filter for us too. Right. Which is great. I love that. Thank you for that, 
Scott.

Put a little like. And you can have a little quiz on there or just even just like, hey, thanks for 
applying. We've got a few questions we want to, you know, know about you specifically. And
then that goes into a Google form or something. Type form and then.

Right?

Yeah, yeah, type form. And now you can capture that. So that would be the. My, my 
suggestions on this.

Amazing.

And then of course we've got some internal resources that bricks that you could use. But I 
mean you were going to want to cast as wide in that as possible because you want to get the 
best person possible. And I've made the mistake of the you'll do hire. It's like, are you 
available? Yes, you'll do.

And don't do that like. Right. I'm sure you've got other businesses. Like, tell me your 
experience in hiring for other businesses. What have you, what have you seen?

Most definitely same thing. Right. Whether it be whether we're hiring in office staff or 
whether it's going to be, you know, field staff. Same kind of thing we tend to. I'll always look.
Okay.

Early on I made the mistake of not doing this, but now I find the most effective is what you 
just explained in mortgage brokering, which for me would have been, for example, picking 
people from other companies that have a similar experience. I'm trying to be diplomatic 
with that, but yeah.

Right.



So I already know maybe they show they've expressed interest or made comments in 
passing where they're thinking about leaving or they love to have a similar role somewhere 
else or what have you. Where it's like, okay, great. Like that opens the door for discussion.

But, but I already know that the experience is there. They're familiar with whether it be 
products, whether it be clients, whether it be, you know, market, whatever it might be. 
Right. So yeah, same kind of thing.

The proximity hire, which I've done numerous times and it's, it's never worked out versus 
putting in some sort of a barrier to hire.

And the people that some of the people I've had still work for me from six years, we made 
them go through some hoops and they're incredible like the way they showed up in the 
hiring process, not surprisingly, is the way they've showed up ever since. And that's made it 
really good.

So, okay, now I think let's say you've done this, you've got your funnel, you put some kind of 
a barrier, especially for these employment companies. And then the next step is questions.

So walk me through kind of what you're thinking in terms of questions and we can, we can 
go back and forth on that.

Yeah. So I've got them into categories, right. So essentially, for example, the first category 
would be like underwriting experience. Right. So I would ask them to me walk me through 
the last complex file that you underwrote from start to finish. Right.

So just kind of get some information from them. Are they vague or they can they be specific 
on it? Another question could be which lenders have you directly underwritten files with?

So if they're not from a bank or from a lender and they've been an underwriter for another 
brokerage or what have you, then they can tell me. Right. Is it a lenders monolines, alts, bfs, 
like what do they handle? You know, do they have private experience, that kind of stuff. 
Right.

What income types are you strongest with? Right. For some folks that might be, some 
underraters might be D4 commission only, you know, like don't give me a self employed 
person, don't deal. Let me don't. I don't want to deal with any rental income or I don't want 
to deal with. Right.

So that's important for me to understand as well. And then also to something along the lines
of like what's your process when a file doesn't fit on paper?



Right.

Explain to me, you know, how do you handle that? Right. So, so that's kind of like 
underwriting stuff. Then I've got other questions pertaining to, you know, deal protection 
and problem solving, I call it. So first question might be, tell me about a deal that almost 
died.

What went wrong and how did you save it?

Right.

Something like that. Right. How do you stress test the file before submission? What's your 
approach when a lender pushes back or declines? I want to know if they're going to say, oh 
no problem, we find another fit somewhere else or we ask them why they declined it.

What's the, you know, what's the reason for it? You know, So I wanted to find out that it's 
not like, well, they declined it, you know, we're in trouble now. No, I want to, I want to.

Get their mindset yeah, you want to see how they problem solve and how.

They solve on their own. Do I have to hold their hand or are they somebody that's like, I've 
done this several times, I'm good. You know, um, speed, volume and capacity is another. 
Another category where I would ask them, what volume have you personally managed at 
peak?

Kind of want to know what you can handle, right? Like, if someone says to me, oh, you know,
I can handle two files at a time, or someone says, oh, I can handle, you know, 15 files at a 
time, I could do multiple. Right. So I'd like to know that.

Another one might be how do you prioritize files when everything is urgent? You asked me 
that last week. Right. You asked me that last week. Is everything a fire or. Right. So also, 
what systems have you worked in?

Like on, like, I mean, like phylogics, Velocity, finmo, like Zoho, like what, what do you have 
you worked with? I like to know that because I know what we work with, so I want to know 
what they're familiar with. And then also client and realtor interactions. Right. So it's a huge 
one for my brand.

I want to know, how comfortable are you speaking directly with clients and realtors? I want 
to know, how do you explain difficult conditions or bad news? How are you going to deliver 
that to someone? Right. I mean, maybe me doing that, but I like to know kind of how they 
handle.



I like to know their capacity. And then finally, ownership standards and growth mindset is 
my last category that I, I asked, what does a clean file mean to you? What frustrates you 
most about brokers you've worked with? What does success in this role look like to you in 
12 months?

Things like that, Right?

Yeah.

Yeah.

So, okay, these are good. Well, let's, let's go through those categories again. So the first one, 
what was the category of mine?

The first one was just standard, like real underwriting experience, I would call it.

I love this question. And there's a concept in interviewing where they call it star, situation, 
task, action, result. And so what you want to do is get them to give you, like, if they speak in 
general terms, it's not good. Like, you want detail so that you.

When they give the detail, they're going to display their knowledge. Right? So if they, if they 
speak vaguely, I would push them to be like, I want. Give me an example of a file. Like, you 
want to always talk specifically about a file, not just in general. What would you do?

And, you know, you get a decline. Give me an example Of a decline. Why was it declined? 
And then how did you. So how did you manage to turn it into a approval.

Nice.

And then they're going to have to give you an example. And then in that it's what really it 
should be mostly stories. A lot of it should be stories that then you'll be able to, in listening 
to the story, you'll be like, okay, I like how they problem solve. And are they using blaming 
language?

I mean, I think they're not going to get past your hiring process. But are they the type of 
person who blames others? Well, it's the lender's fault, this person's fault. Or do they take 
have ownership language? Like that's a key. I think you would, you'd pick up on that really 
fast.

And so I think anything to do with the lending is give them specific. The other thing you 
could do is you could take a. Give them a scenario and ask them like a complex file that 
you've seen and say, how would you solve this problem? What would you do with it? So I 
gotta like.



And then it's like, oh, because that's also putting them on the spot. And so they're gonna feel 
some pressure from that because it's like if I'm telling my story, the thing about is like, so 
one of those three questions, if it was you gave them a scenario and tell me how you 
problem solve it.

A lot more pressure than a story that I've repeated a few times and I know the, the outcome 
and I can make myself look like a hero versus show me. Don't just tell me like what you do 
with this. Right. Great. So that I think that would be a way. Another way I would possibly.

On the underwriting side, what was the next category you had?

Excellent. Next category was problem solving. Kind of rolled into a little bit of what you said 
there. But for me it was, you know, I guess similar. Tell me about a deal that almost died. 
What went wrong? How did you save it? So that was kind of what you.

Mentioned a second ago already.

And maybe what's your approach when a lender pushes back or declines. Yeah, same kind 
of thing again.

Give me, give me a specific example so that it's like with that, like, give me an example of 
where a lender, what did they say? And then what was your. How did. What was your 
response?

And the more detailed, typically the more if it wasn't detailed that they didn't solve the 
problem, someone else did. Like, that's a cue if they can't actually answer it that means 
probably the broker that they're working for picked up the phone, solved the problem, and 
they were just told it's.

It's solved.

That's cool.

And so if they can give you detail about it, you'd be like, that's actually a queue to me that 
they, they were the one who solved the problem.

No, that's interview gold. That's great. Thank you. I'll definitely get Dig right in there. That's 
super valuable.

And if they use language, we versus I, so if they say we did this, we solved the problem. 
They're. They're, they're bringing in their previous broker with them and it's like versus 
and it's okay. But like.



Or was it an I language where it's ownership language of I picked up the phone, I called the 
lender. This is what I push back. Like, you're seeing somebody who takes ownership of that 
role and will do everything they can versus someone who's like, well, we're going to. It's like
when I.

It's like we have a problem. It's like, no, no, you have a problem. And like, how. Like, you 
know, instead of flipping it.

That way, I just thought of something on that actually as well, which is a good point. It's got. 
If somebody responds with, let's say, for example, somebody else addressed the problem 
where, you know, Steve, Steve did this, Steve did that.

But I'm super happy and willing and capable to also learn how to do that. I'd be comfortable 
doing it. So it's almost like they're taking. They're, they're being honest that someone else 
addressed it in the previous role, but they'd like to be able to, or they'd be comfortable 
doing it.

That would be real cool. And because then you're.

That would be good too, though, because it also shows them a. They're not snowing you or 
basically pretending that they know more than they do. And then what was the next 
category you had?

Yep, next category was speed, volume and capacity. Basically, like, what volume can you 
have. You personally manage that peak? Right. We really want to get an idea of, like, what 
are they capable of in this, in this kind of category.

That what can affect volume is how much of the file they're doing. So sure. Are they just 
hitting the submit button? So when you get to this one, what you want to ask is say to them, 
okay, like, what's the most number of files that you've been able to close in a month?

You know, and then what's an average month so you get the peak. You may, you can ask 
what's. What's a. Typically a low month. And then what you want to ask is like, where do 
you pick up the file? Like right now, if they're working for someone else, what are they 
doing?

The document collection on the front end, you know, getting the app ready so that the 
broker can then, you know, do the discovery call and then hitting the submit button. Or like 
where. Because if they're only doing part a very small piece of it, it can be a high number 
and you'll get it.

You'll be like, oh my gosh, this person's amazing. But they're only expecting to do the last 20



or get the, they're at the 80, the 20 yard line and they've only got to get it across. You've 
already done 80 yards.

This is super valuable because I can elaborate on something here that will also help our 
listeners understand the context of where we are here is that when I first came to you and 
talked to you about, you know, where am I right now? Where, where I think I need to go.

Before we even started this podcast in general, you mentioned to me, I was talking to you 
about how I was like piecemealing fulfillment and, and you know, like there was someone I 
was working with and there was someone else I was going to work with.

And you kind of said, you know, I think you skip all that and go right to hire an underwriter.

And that was exactly the case where, for example, the person that was going to be doing 
fulfillment, they were going to just pick up a file where it's already been underwritten, 
prepared, submitted, came back conditionally approved.

Whereas the way that I have everything already done and prepared, they basically have 
almost nothing to do after that. They were just, if you do a.

Good job on that, it's really, they're just babysitting it to the end, just.

Nursing it along, which is really not that much. So that's a good point that you mentioned. 
It's really important to identify with folks where exactly are you picking this file up or 
starting it?

Right, right. And then that way you can map that to what you're doing. And if it's a good or. 
And if, and also, even if they're not doing, let's say they're only doing a part now, but you 
want them to do more, you can still in the expectations, you can explain that to them. Right.

But also it gives you a reference point for this number they've given you. Because again, if 
you're just doing signing Packages, man, you can be a lot of files like, oh, and then, yeah, you 
know. So then in terms of technology piece, what was the next category?

I love this by the way, that you have categories. I think this is really helpful for our listeners 
as well as for creating structure for your interviews.

Yeah, it was just really kind of trying to understand what systems, you know, you've worked
with. So whether it be like tech stack wise or. Or more specifically submission platforms.

Right.

Like we, you know, we as brokers, we have several different ones. Well, there's a. Basically a



couple, there's basically three that anyone uses. But I really want to know like if we're using 
Venmo, are you only familiar with Velocity? Right? Have you used Zoho? Have you used.

Or have you only used a different CRM platform? What tech are you using? Right. That's 
really basically what I know. More specifically underwriting tech and submission tech. But 
I'd like to know that because it's going to be. There could be a big learning curve there for 
us.

Right. And I always think like if somebody comes on with another set of skills that you 
didn't expect, so let's say they have some great other tech skills. I call it a gift with purchase. 
So you hired them for one thing, but they have this other skill set that you get the benefit of.

And so somewhere in here you want to find out and it might be tech skills. But on the tech 
piece, I'll tell you a mistake. I made one. So I hired somebody who worked for a very busy 
broker. I did. No underwriting questions. I'm like, oh, you work for this person. My God. 
Like, and they're busy.

Like this person was a really busy broker. And I thought, well, I'm going to be easy. My files 
are straightforward, be super clean, amazing. They come to work for me. And this was when
we're in an office and she sits down at the computer and I see her working on phylogics and 
I'm like, oh my God.

She's.

She has not done this very much because if she did she'd be much faster. And so if you're 
using. What I would do is if they say they're proficient at finmo. Open it up. Show me. Okay. I
just want to. Show me how it works, man. Show me where you go find this. Show me.

And if they really know it, they will find it. Right? It prevents people from hiding behind. Oh 
yeah, I'm good with all that stuff. I would definitely test and when. And because I, when I 
saw it and then here's what happened. So she came into work. I was like, oh my God.

I think I made a massive mistake. And then she's like, you know, I think I'm gonna, she lived 
at like 40 minutes, 5 minutes, but about an hour away. And she's like, I think we're sell my 
house. We're gonna move closer to here. So work. I had to fire her the next day.

I'm like, I can't, I can't let you, like. So then I, I hired her and then I fired her the next day. 
And I felt terrible and it was my fault because I didn't do the proper testing.

But the reality was is that her skill level was very basic and I didn't, I assumed based on the 
fact that there was like association. It's like, oh, you were with this person, you. But they 
didn't let her do a whole lot. So now I, I didn't dig enough. And so then I got.



And if I would have saw her using the software, I would have been like, oh my God. It's like, 
what's going on? Because I can make this thing. I can make it hum. But that was like, that 
was a very obvious thing.

Great lesson on not making assumptions. Right. Somebody could work for a $500 million 
producer but not know how to be proficient at the platform. Right. Excellent.

Yeah. Because they don't, they never, they were never allowed to touch it. So it doesn't 
mean that you can't hire them, but you should, you should test it. And so I think having 
them, if they say they're good at it, say, okay, show me. Where do you find the credit 
bureaus?

If you were looking for like, show me this even just bounce around, share your screen. You'll
really quickly, you'll know if they actually can do it or not. If somebody's listening to this, 
who's going to be applying for a job, just be aware you're going to jump through.

It's going to be a fantastic career opportunity, but they're going to be some hoops to jump 
through in order to make sure you, you know, that you're, it's a good fit.

Yeah. And you know what too? For the folks who are qualified and love what they want to 
do, want to grow. It's, it's, you know, they're more than proud to. Let's jump on. Let's jump 
on right now. I'll show you what I can do. Right. I love it. That's, that's excellent. Yeah.

The person who's really perfect, they'll be like, no problem, show me. And then they'll, you 
know, I. The one underwear that I'd hired a member many years ago. Who was he? The 
most files he had funded in a month was 67. 67 Files. And I was like, oh, my.

And he took care from submission on and that's still a lot of files. And he was a monster. But 
he would just sit there and. And then he'd set a reminder for himself, waiting on their 
approval, like, know, two hours. And he played Minesweeper. And then soon as ping or 
come up, hey, where's my file?

Back. Back to Minesweeper. Like he was a robot.

Wow.

And anyway, that was a whole other lesson that I learned. But okay, so what was the next 
category you had? Because I want to get into compensation too.

Yeah, yeah. I'm talking about how that's all structured, for sure. It was just the comfort. And 
so client and realtor interactions. Right. Like, how comfortable are you speaking directly 
with clients and realtors?



Not that they're going to have to, but I'd like to know if that's part of their tool belt or not. 
Right.

Okay, here's what I would do in this, I love this question too, is I would give them a scenario 
and say, okay, what you, I'm the client. What are you going to say to me? And some, again, 
you're going to put this could be a pressure cooker.

But I tell you, man, the person who gets this through this, you're going to be like, you're 
going to have an amazing person. So if you've got to have a tough. Because you say, how are 
you handling tough conversations? I'm good at that stuff.

And then if you give me an example, they can come up with an example that they thought of.
But what's harder is to say, okay, you got a client who now you need, everything's done. 
Give them a scenario. Tell me, I'm, ring, ring, I'm on the phone. What do you say to me?

And put like, it's not going to be there. They may be like, but that's okay. Look, I'm not 
asking. You can even say them. I'm not trying to, like, stress you out. I just want to see what 
your natural instinct is. And don't worry, I'll coach you.

Like, you know, if you end up getting this job, I'll coach you and how to do it, but I just want 
to see what your natural instinct is without any coaching or scripting from me. And then 
role play and make them do it. And they'll be like, holy. And you'll see a lot in that. Right.

So I would do that with the marvelous client numbers if they're going to be talking to 
clients.

That's great. I love it.

Okay, what was the last category?

Category is on ownership standards and growth mindset. So things like what frustrates you 
about brokers you've worked with? What does success in this role look like to you in fill in 
the blanks.

Right.

Six months, 12 months, a year, whatever. Right?

Yeah, yeah. I mean, I think, I think this is a great. That feels like a values almost. There is a 
values piece because you can have somebody who checks all the other boxes but you don't 
have the same values. And this feels like this is. You're a growth mindset guy, an ownership 
guy.



So I would, that last one I'd make somehow like values based questions so that you get a 
sense of like, okay, are we matched on values? Because everything else could be great. But if 
you're not a match on values, it'll be a pro. It could be a problem. So let's chat about 
compensation.

So give me what, give me your thoughts on like what you're thinking and, and then we can 
go through again. I'll give you different scenarios. You're going to get to pick what makes 
sense in the end, but I'd love to hear what you're doing there.

Yeah, this is something I haven't pinned down exactly yet because, you know, you and I 
spoke about the advantages and disadvantages of different ways to structure it.

So, you know, we talked about the idea of obviously the person being, you know, an 
employee and then providing them with not just compensation, but there could be some 
kind of bonus structure based on number of files.

There could be an upside as it pertains to growth of the, you know, the company in general, 
that kind of stuff. So exactly how it should be structured.

And even just from a company structural standpoint as it tends to like you know, my 
company's corporation, are they an employee, are they independent contractor? All that 
stuff I think would be valuable for listeners to hear your take on it.

And then I know we've chatted about it, but I know it's always good to get a good reminder 
on exactly how you think it might be best to structure it. Sure.

Okay. There's pros and obviously all this stuff has pros and cons. The thing about 
contractors are a great short term solution. I don't believe they scale like a employee. I 
really don't. And I'll get I can give you some examples of that.

But the thing about a contractor is if you're feeling a little overwhelmed, you just want to get
somebody to come in and do fulfillment. I know you're ambitious and you're the kind of guy 
who's like I'm gonna, I'm, I'm aiming to hit a home run.

And so I know that to do that I got to put a team around me. You're going to go for that 
underwriter versus just necessarily a fulfillment. So it can work. The only challenge would 
be is if they start working for you exclusively. So we'll go through the different options.

You they, let's say first off you share. So you share somebody. It's you got you and a couple 
of the brokers and we got brokers that are doing this. You share it. That can be a contractor 
relationship. It's pretty good because.

And you could justify that with cra that hey, he works with this person, works with three or 



four people where it get. But what happens in these scenarios is everybody who gets these 
three or four brokers all get more time back because of the fulfillment and they all get 
busier.

And when they all get busier, eventually this fulfillment person's like, yeah, puts their hand 
up and says hey, you know, tap. I'm getting overwhelmed here.

And so what, what I've seen happen typically is that person ends up, that fulfillment person 
ends up going to work for one of those people, Taylor, who's on the other episode, that's 
what happened to him. He shared somebody. Now they work for him exclusively.

So if the person that you share you are like, I don't want to let that person go. Make sure 
that you are the one that is. They're going to pick. It's kind of like we know divorce,.

They're going to outgrow that, that split.

You're like, everybody's going to grow and that person's going to get. Going to get full. And 
so there's a basically like we know a divorce is coming and who are they going to live with? 
You know they're going to live with you.

Yeah. I've learned in building businesses as well in the past that I always now through error,
take the long term mindset whereby you know, if I understand that my goal is here, I do not 
want to have any short term solutions and I don't want no patches.

I only want full on repairs and fixes, no patches. So yeah, I would agree already. Just hearing 
you speak that talk that through makes it already makes sense to me. That share. 
Contractor. No. Share. No. I can already see that right away.

Right. But for some people, I'm just saying, if you're listening and you're in that situation, a 
divorce is coming. And so you get to, if you, if you plan ahead for it and make sure that 
person loves you the most and treat them really well, you're going to get the. Keep them in 
there.

You win the prize.

Yeah, yeah, you win the prize. But that's for sure coming every time. And so then.

But now when you get into a situation where it's someone working for you and you want to 
do piece work, but they're only working for you and you're dictating their hours, you're 
going to have a heck of a time with cra and you could do it. So, like, you can do whatever you
want.

It just depends on if you get audited. But I know mortgage brokers that have been on my 



show that have friends of mine that have done this. And then two years later, three, four 
years later, CRA comes and says, that looks like an employment relationship.

You owe us cpp, EI and OAS for the last three years for you and the employee. Yeah, like, and
the employee's now gone and you're not going to get the money from them. And so now 
you're on the hook. And so the other piece about having an employee is that I want to 
dictate their hours. I don't.

I want to know that if they're between this time and this time, if I reach out, they're going to 
be available versus this piecework. And they're like, oh, I'm picking up my kids. And that, 
that's cool. But like, I can't run a business if I'm. I don't know when I can rely on you. Yeah, 
right.

And so I think an employee structure makes more sense. It's an expense to the business. 
And then you layer in some kind of a bonus structure. And there's many ways to do bonus 
structures, but. And I think it can either be based on file.

I don't think volume is the way to do it because you don't want to incentivize them to ignore
your smaller clients. I like file number personally, like file number. Or I like, like gross 
revenue for the company. So, like, company revenue is like, gets to X. We go from here to 
there. You get why.

You get why Benefit. So that's how I would typically structure something like that in terms 
of a. And plus, if you're going to steal somebody from the bank, you ain't getting them on 
piecework. They are not going to leave a salary job to come work for you. Piece work.

They're going to say, no, no, I need to know I'm guaranteed X, but I have opportunity to 
create X plus. Yeah, right, makes sense. And that's how you're going to attract a better 
person. Ultimately.

Love it. That's, that's.

But there's a commitment. There's a commitment on your part. Yeah.

I love the idea of the full time employee bonuses layered in there based on file count and 
then you know, gross revenue kind of tiered structure to some extent. I love that. That 
makes sense to me.

Yeah, so I think that. And then. So have you given any thought to sort of a range, salary 
range that you think you're going to need to do for this?

Yeah, I have. You and I spoke a little bit about that. I made basing it on what's. What you 
would expect somebody that's going to be working to this extent to have. I think we're 



probably in the neighborhood of like you know, $70,000 plus range, you know, $80,000 in 
and around there.

It all depend on exactly the type of load they're going to have in the hours I expect of them. 
But for me to have complete control of them and for them to come away from somewhere 
else and have high expectations, it's probably going to be in that range.

Yeah, 70 to 80. And then ideally if there's an opportunity to get to 100 based on, you know, 
growth and stuff, bonuses, then you know the way we do it at our company and I know 
Denise does this as well, she does like an open book management.

You don't have to do this, but it's basically the share of the books and then they see the 
profitability and then as the.

Prof.

They get a piece of the upside of the profit. There's a minimum threshold of profit, so. And 
then above that a percent goes to the staff of percent goes to the owners and a percent goes 
into growth.

And so that's another model that, and we do that our brokerage and it's worked really well 
because then you, you get ownership mindset because they go, oh, like they don't, they don't
waste money.

They're not like since then he started doing this, people aren't like, they're not paying for 
appraisals as much because before it was like, oh, who cares, I'll pay for your appraisal. Now
it's like, no, no, hold on, that's out of My pocket too. So the behavior is different.

Right.

What happens is the behavior is different because of the. The comp. Like Charlie Munger 
says this the most important thing to get right is the incentives. And so if you get the 
incentives wrong, you're going to incentivize the wrong behavior.

And so in her case, it does help if you have something that's tied to revenue versus just files. 
Because what about buy downs? So now you do files and then they start going, oh, we'll just 
buy down this rate and that rate.

And you're like, well, shoot, this is, you know, because they want to get file count up and 
even an honest person will still do it because it's just human nature.

That's brilliant, right?



Yeah.

People would never think about those things. That's brilliant right there. I love that. And I 
do, I do. And you know what? To the truth is that I love my staff, my employees at all my 
company. I love them so much as family and I really, really do want them to.

I want to see them grow and succeed and develop and make as much money as they can and
just have as much freedom as they can and enjoy life as much as they can. So yeah, I mean, I 
want to empower them with as much tools as possible to succeed and love it.

Right, Right. So when is. So I guess my question for you, and you have any questions you 
want to throw at me while we wrap this up, but when is your job posting going to go live? 
Because I feel like that's will create the most attention for you.

But then there's also going to be the time of doing the interview.

Right. My expectation is that like today, right now is, as you mentioned, is the 21st.

So as an expectation, I'd like to be able to get it all done and wrapped up and posted by the 
end of the weekend, you know, so that would be like, you know, 25th, 26th, so that, you 
know, it's out there and up there and posted before the end of the month.

And as I mentioned, my goal is kind of to make sure I can have enough time to receive them, 
review them, filter them, start interviewing people like really seriously so that we can get 
them hired in the first quarter. Yeah.

So here's another hack. So we recently hired a. Because we've done all our own hiring. Like 
we, we. I had a program before. We used to hire unlicensed assistants and. And Loren 
worked me. She hired over a hundred of them for mortgage brokers. And so she's got. She 
got really good at the.

But a License assist or underwriters are different. They're more technical role. But so we 
recently hired a contractor and so we pay her $1,500. She does all the job posting. She does 
all the initial interviews.

She records the interviews and then gives those to me to just the ones that she thinks are 
worth. And then I look at those recordings at one and a half speed and I can then decide if I 
do a full interview. And so. And then there's another if what if it's successful, we hire 
someone.

I think it's another, I don't know, a couple grand. But as a thought it's up to you. But like as 
an. That could be a way for you to be basically not have to do the 80% of the work. You just 
come in for the last. I love that. And I would. Yeah. So I could.



I'll connect with you off offline about this person. But like so we're right now we're hiring an
underwriter coach and they're running the whole campaign for us. We've told them what 
we want. We've given them the initial stuff.

And then her job is to run the postings, run the ads, do the interviews and only give me the 
recordings of the interviews that she thinks are worth it. And then I get to decide instead of. 
Because like dude, I already thinking about the number of people you're going to talk to.

You've already got a business to run. It could be a very painful for.

You to again, complete gold, massive value here. That is so good. I mean I. I never would 
have even thought of that. So that's brilliant. Thank you for that. That is super valuable.

Yeah, I'll connect you with that HR contractor. Anybody listening? If you're interested in 
that, you can always hit me up or hit up Nate because he'll have that information too. Nate, 
man, I love these conversations. This is so fun. And this one was me talking more. These.

These are not just going to be Scott talking. I got like his. Nate is an absolute killer when it 
comes to leads and marketing and stuff he's doing. And we're going to get into all that stuff. 
But this we're.

Right now we're just solving the next most immediate problem which is we got to get this 
underwriter because there's. Otherwise you're going to have no capacity to go out and 
continue to grow and build it to 100.

Yeah. And you know what too good point. I mean I'm an open book. So we're going to get 
into a lot of fun stuff. Folks can learn to build their business in a lot of different ways and 
generate a ton of business.

And also, you know, if anybody that is listening does want to reach out to me and ask any 
questions about anything at all that I am doing with you, building the business, growing it, 
how we're operating things here at BRX and all that kind of stuff, reach out because I'd be 
more than happy to answer questions and talk to people about my client journey and how 
I've structured it to be able to get to this point.

Yeah. Amazing. Okay. Thanks brother. I really appreciate you. I will see you on the next 
episode.

Awesome. Killer. Let's do it.

Hey, thanks again for listening and hopefully you were inspired about how your next hire 
and what you want to do. And again, I believe I've made every mistake imaginable on the 



hiring. I only shared some of them on this episode. I could probably do a whole episode on 
the hiring mistakes I've made.

But the point is, is that we want to give you something that you can apply to your mortgage 
business. And a couple things for you if you're listening to this one, if you know the one big 
thing that I'd say that most people neglect in the mortgage business is mindset.

And Nate has an incredible mindset. You can tell 25 years, you know, personal training. He's
a trainer, he guy's fit, he's jacked and so he understands self discipline and mindset. But a lot
of times I know that for me there's areas I've struggled in.

And so we've we started a morning mortgage mindset daily and it's something that we run 
Monday to Friday and we instead of going wide on topics and always like on social media, 
getting new things.

We're going deep in this series right now we're working with is a book called the Big Leap 
and the we actually have the author coming on one of our upcoming. Well by the time you 
listen to this already happened.

But we brought the author in to talk and do a Q A and man, I'm telling you we're getting a 
ton of brokers showing up to these calls. It's been so amazing and life giving for me. If you're
interested, hit me up on that. Hit the button like on my social media. I'll send you the info on 
it.

I'd love to have you come join us for that because if you make a shift in your mindset, 
everything else becomes possible. Everything else becomes you'll actually do it. And the 
strategy and tactics, yes, they matter. But not more than mindset, in my personal opinion.

And last thing I'd say is that if you're also I've got an email list. Every week I put an email 
called Peckford's Playbook. I share some of the insights, some of the stuff that's going on.

If you're into mortgages, if you want to scale your mortgage business totally free for 
anybody, go hit me up on social on that or click on this episode. You can get on that 
Peckford's Playbook. Thank you for listening.

And as I always say, there's no problem in your mortgage business someone else hasn't 
already solved. Your problem is who's got the solution. Our hope is that this podcast 
provides some of those solutions. Thanks for listening and I will see you on the next 
episode.