What if the deals you're trying to avoid are actually the ones that could make your business 
grow the fastest?

Most brokers don't want complicated files.

They don't want the weird income, multiple properties, deals held in the trust.

They want everything that fits nice and neat into a simple box. They take more time and 
effort.

However, as Taylor shares in this episode, these complicated files are one of the best 
sources of creating loyal referral partners who will send you all of their business.

Hey, I'm Scott Beckford. This is the I Love Mortgage Brokering podcast.

And each week our goal is to bring you episodes to inspire you, to inform you, to teach you 
how to build a better business.

In this episode I talked to Taylor Atkins and and he is his goal is to improve his revenue per 
hour and his revenue per hour is down right now compared to last year.

But that's okay. This is we're showing you re the real life, not what always is going to work.

And so a couple things we talk about how an email that he had sent to 3,500 people 
completely flopped and I had given him advice on what sent.

So that's on me what he's going to try next.

He came to the realization that he's his business model.

The BRM type model is where he's on the right track and also why picking up the phone is 
still the biggest ROI activity.

Before we jump into this episode, I want to give a shout out to our sponsor, Omwell.

Omwell is an amazing tool for brokers to engage with.

Their database has an open rate of 70, around 70%. And it sends a couple of things.



One, it sends your clients their home equity position. It also gives you in within their 
dashboard.

It shows you deals that are opportunities for you to help clients save money and it gives you
templates on what to send to them and save them so that they'll have those conversations.

It's very powerful. Check them out. Atwell CA/Scott and check out this episode with Taylor.

Welcome back to the show. So give me an update. Where are you at?

What's been going on over the last couple month and yeah, well, maybe what's been doing 
the last month we reported.

Early March, I think a couple days before I took off to Hawaii for 12 days and then we got 
back from there and went to Big White for a long weekend.

So I've kind of been off of the business a little bit, probably half the time since we spoke.

But yeah, today is April 15th.

Have funded 8.9 million gross, paid out 79,000 net paid out after my split with my business 
partner and everything, 49,000 and 203 hours worked.

So unfortunately, hourly rates going down. So it's at 242 bucks an hour.

But you took time off too, right?

About two weeks off.

And how I structure that is I, I then pay my team member Kat, like a day rate from what we 
did last year.

So we estimate kind of what we did last year, what she's earning per day and what I'm 
earning, and then I pay for her to cover me.

So really there was like an increased cost and a decreased revenue because, you know, me 
out of the business for a couple weeks also is not really driving income.

So that's kind of expected.

But Yeah, I had 15 days off in the last month and yeah, business was kind of at a standstill.



But we've, we've really like gotten back at it the last couple weeks.

So it's been pretty busy actually.

What's your pipeline look like right now in terms of what do you got for pre?

I think we have like 11 live files right now, most of them committed, a couple of them broker
complete.

And honestly, this is kind of what's been like the best driver of my business is the, the tough 
files.

Just working with clients, working with real estate agents, and then getting referrals from 
there.

So I've actually like gotten quite a bit of like, say it's a multiplier by diving into those.

So like Poly B came up in an inspection, the GST thing where, you know, like new homes, 
like all these like really nuanced style deals or like some BFS stuff that's like really difficult.

Like a client has like five rental properties or four rental properties, but they're not held in 
the corp.

It's via a trust agreement in the corp.

So a lot of this, like, you know, more time consuming stuff, but then I'm starting to get more 
leads from it because, you know, people kind of respect what you're doing for them.

Yeah. If you, if you do the hard, you do the hard ones that then you earn.

Yeah. So I would say in the next as well, two months we'll probably have another 7, 8 million
close.

So we'll, we'll probably double what we've done in the last couple months.

But so yeah, the last couple weeks has been pretty busy.

Okay. And then so last time we chatted, there's a couple things you're working on.

We talked about the idea of multiple referral partners.

What have you been doing on the referral partner side?



What's working and yeah, yeah, what's been the results on that?

One of your suggestions was reaching out to a financial advisor, like my financial advisor 
partner, and asking him about a real estate agent that he works with.

So I'm actually having coffee with him tomorrow morning.

It again, took a while going over Easter and spring break and stuff, but yeah, that I feel 
pretty confident.

That should be a good connection.

And then the other one was discussing somebody in Alberta because I have my license there
now.

And it was also a similar conversation, like, hey, who do you have in Alberta?

I got this connection through just a really good friend that I've had for 25 years.

And we were just out for coffee, just chatting about life and he actually brought it up.

It wasn't even an ask for me. So he made the intro again.

It took like a few weeks of back and forth and I'm like, man, this girl is busy. Like, she just.

I can't. I can't lock her down.

Turns out I got her on a phone call last week, so she does 100 ends a year and 60 of those 
are purchases.

And the funny thing with that, right, is I was just like, yeah, you know, are you using anyone?

She goes, no, my last girl retired.

Been kind of using this TD guy, but, you know, clients don't really align with him for 
personality.

So, yeah, happy to send stuff over. She goes, actually, I just bought a place for myself. No cof.

Because I'm. I just know I'm going to close on it. But you want to do that. Awesome. So.

So, yeah, I guess the point is, like, you just assume that people that are doing a lot of 
business have somebody and it's kind of mind blowing that she doesn't.



So, yeah, I'm very excited to jump in on that.

Right. That's amazing. And it's another market that you can fish in versus your own.

It's because you're in bc and yeah,.

So I'm not really, like, I don't feel I'm stepping on any toes in terms of like, asking referral 
partners here to introduce me to someone.

Like, it was just. And it was. It was an alignment like business is fine.

Like, I feel like anyone can kind of align on business and say, hey, let's make money.

But it was more of a personality, like a referral from a close friend that just has, like the 
same, you know, drive in life and balance.

So, yeah.

And values. Right. So it's a good values connection. That's really good. So that.

So is there any other partners referral partners that you went after or focused on the last.

Yeah, I kind of threw out like a couple Google reviews for real estate agents that we've 
worked with in the last couple months.

I'm just like, hey, great working with you. Bought a couple small gifts, like just real subtle.

Not, not going after them in terms of like, hey, send me some business.

But just, you know, thanks for working together.

And then on some of the tougher files, I did reach out to two of the agents and I just said, 
you know, from the buying agent side.

So from my side and just said, great working with you.

Like, I hope I kind of proved myself on this one and how we could get this across the line.

So would love some business in the future.

So yeah, definitely planted a lot of seeds over the last couple weeks.



Right. Have you got any new referral partners?

That Realtor that sent you her own deal, but anything else?

One did send me a file last week and yeah, so that was. That was new. Ish.

There wasn't like an ask to send me.

It was just a we met at an event and just like, hey, how are you? Kind of thing.

So yeah, I feel it's.

With my referral business, I've probably like tripled the amount of people I'm going to be 
working with.

So how's it going with the OwnWell? So you had running some campaigns, the OwnWell, 
adding people.

Yeah, I do feel like I'm probably exhausting the Runway there a little bit.

So, you know, the last piece of that was basically to send it out to my mail out list of about 3, 
500 people.

And what we do now is it's sent out bi weekly.

It's as per like whatever show we've recorded for cologne real estate podcast.

And so we strategically put it with one of our previous guests who has always had the most 
downloads for our show.

Um, so Dina Steele, she's a luxury Airbnb style property manager in Kelowna.

Really awesome guest, good social media presence.

So we just aligned it with that mail out and the call to action was kind of what we discussed.

Like, hey, brooks does a $2,500 referral. Would love to mon. Monitor your mortgage.

We've saved clients money in the past, et cetera and that one kind of fell flat, honestly.

It came out 10 days ago but have not seen any results from it.

What was the.



I have not like on it actually.

So a couple thoughts I have on this.

Like it's good to you share the like not everything works so that's part.

But it's like, okay, now how do we adjust or learn from it? And I think I'd asked you.

So if you're not sending emails frequently, then it can seem like a surprise. That sort of.

If you think about it, you have not heard from somebody forever, and then all of a sudden, 
do you want to win?

It's like, did somebody hack your account? Is this even you?

Like, that could be what's going through their head.

And I think it's a trust game of consistency in the emailing, adding value in those emails.

And even if your value is just sending the shows that they missed. Yeah, it drives more 
downloads.

You know, you. That alone. That alone can be a way to increase your downloads and bring 
people.

Circle them back.

Yeah, I think this is probably the fourth mail out that we've had.

Like, we just started the mail list for the shows this winter and so, yeah, I think you're right.

It's probably a bit of a surprise to see them start to trickle in.

But we have had a lot of good conversations, starting from people like, just, hey, love the 
show.

Or. Or, hey, I actually disagree with.

With this, you know, so there's been like, it's opened up some good conversations, but yeah, 
in terms of the own.

Well, it. It didn't land at this point, but yeah, some work, some doesn't.



Right, that's okay. And then what about your.

You had a campaign to go after people that you had talked to about mortgages but didn't do 
one with you.

How does that. Yeah, I think we touched on that last time.

That.

That was awesome. Um, so, like, I. Yeah, we uploaded. I think there was about. What was it?

53 From our, like, previous database into OwnWell, which is. Which was really good.

And then now that I've, like, clued into the fact of when I have these renewal conversations, 
it's a pretty easy segue to say, like, hey, if I can't.

If I can't beat them on the rate, like, why don't you send it over?

Like, I just had a client renewing with TD and they were like, yeah, I was at 5.19 for the last 
three years.

And I'm like, oh, you know, if.

If you were in my database, like, we would have switched you out a year ago to a far 
superior product.

So. Right. Something in the. Yeah, that. That's a. That's why a managed mortgage is.

I mean, that could be an email that you send out to people as well about the importance of 
having your mortgage managed.

Right. Hey, you recently talked to someone you know, they were stuck in this rate.

We could have easily saved them this money, but no one reached out to them.

And, you know, that's a thought. But here's what I was thinking about that email list.

These people and how do they get on your list? I guess that's the other piece.

Like, how did you collect from your podcast?

Basically in Gmail, downloaded every contact that I've emailed in the last five years and that



was it.

So there's.

There's a handful of subscribers. Like, I do have a click here to subscribe on my email.

So there's some that found that way, but yeah, most of them it was just correspondence over
the last five years.

Okay.

Okay, that's a totally different story that I thought these people subscribed to your email list.

That's a. Yeah. So that is a super cold email that you sent out.

And you're lucky you didn't get a spam because if a bunch of people.

So we did start. The very first mail out was, hey, guys, this is what we're doing.

You're going to start seeing us in your inbox. You know, bi weekly or, you know, every.

Every show, basically.

Yeah. If you don't want it unsubscribe here.

So we did get really easy, right?

Yeah, that's a fair. That. So that they don't get annoyed. Okay, that makes sense. So you, you.

Because I, I. Do you have a call to action for your podcast to get listeners?

Uh, yeah, so we do, but it's kind of the same as like every show, which probably doesn't 
work that well, is like, you know, at the end of the show, hey, click, subscribe.

There's YouTube, there's Instagram. Like, we.

We do have funnels that drive towards the download on whether it's.

What do you think if you had to create something that people would trade their email for, 
what would your average listener find valuable that they would be willing to give you their 
email for?

Because that's what you would.



That would be ideally what you'd have as something you talk about your show.

Yeah, I don't know, man. That's.

So I'll give you.

So I'll throw some ideas at you and you can, because you got a partner in your podcast.

But there could be something like a Kelowna real estate buying guide. It could be. I don't.

Do you guys specialize in certain property types or certain areas, but you could create 
something that is.

That people would actually want. Right. And then talk about it on your show so that it's 
they.

Or it could be that you. You guys send out a.

Does your real estate agent partner that does the show with you?

Do they send out market updates or anything like shows what.

Yeah, but he's kind of switching over more to the commercial side, which I think our listener
is very spread out.

Right. It's not just like residential buyers, so it's kind of hard to. To niche all of them.

But yeah, maybe we have to do like a few different ones or.

Yeah, either put them in different. Is there one client type that's we.

If you had to look at the avatar.

So the most activity, what would be social media reels or downloads or anything?

It's always Kelowna based, like local economy, small business, tourism, Airbnb.

Like anything that kind of touches on everyone in Kelowna and it really comes from like 
that.

That tourism sector.



So whether it's, you know, downtown Kelowna association or talking about the Kelowna 
Airport or any developments that are like Airbnb style, that really tends to like motivate a 
lot of people.

We've had a couple like restaurateurs on and those have been huge downloads as well.

Right, interesting. So the other thing you could potentially do is if there was.

I have a couple and I'm just going to throw a bunch of ideas at you.

And none of these are prescriptive. These are just think of them as brainstorming.

So one idea for you could be something you said your Airbnb episodes get really good 
downloads.

Is there something that could go along with that, that people would trade their email for, 
whether it's something that you co create with this Deanna person, where it's like the cheat 
sheet for Kelowna Airbnb.

If you want it, I'll send it to you. Like, that could be a way to get people's email addresses.

It sounds like that would be. If it gets lots of play. That's. It's.

And then also get updated if any of the news to do with Airbnbs in Kelowna will give you the
latest news people.

Because right now they did change the rules and it's. It's very pertinent. Right.

I know they wiped out a bunch of them and maybe they're coming back, maybe they're not.

And so there's.

Yeah, that's actually probably a thought because yeah, we're waiting for like the next 
announcement here.

Provincially.

The other thing you could do is which is this is where the idea of the VIP club came from.

Because when the VIP club is a email contest that we ran and when I did it for the first 
couple of years it was all just local businesses and I, I saw Groupon come to town and build 
an email list of 40,000 people and I thought, man, if they can get 40,000 people on their 
email list just by showing up, I should be able to get some people.



And you could be. What if it's.

You have a restaurant door on and people can win a gift card to that gift card to that 
restaurant or something like people care then that's very local.

The only people that are going to care about it are local.

Which are great for you and your realtor partner.

So something like that could also be some value add if you decide to do more.

You're getting that kind of a mixed audience and people again, people love free shit.

There's a percentage of people that. And so that could be a way to.

Okay, let me throw one at you then. So Kelowna now gives like a awards out. It's.

It's a complete like marketing scheme by Kelowna now.

Like he basically drives people to your website.

It's a pain to you first have like a nomination round and then once you're nominated in the 
top 10 then people do a voting round and then you're voted for the top three and then they 
do an awards night and it's like it's a, it's a bit much.

But like we do it for the podcast because we're like low hanging fruit.

Like who's going to get best Kelowna Real or best Kelowna Podcast?

Like there's, there's not a lot of people doing podcasts.

There's not a lot of. You've got. Your competition is very low. It's like as a. Yeah, so we.

Did this three years ago. Third and we're like how do we get third?

Like we like who else is doing a podcast for the last three years we've always gotten third.

So we're like hey, now that we have this mail out list like we need to try and get some boats 
to maybe we can edge up to Silver.

But yeah, what would do it do.



That's a good. But then that's. That creates social proof and something you can share and 
also it.

Yeah, that's not a bad idea to, to use that list to help you.

Yeah.

So I, I guess is there increasing.

Your reward call to action.

I don't even know if it's like legal as part of their like guidelines for voting, but you have to 
check.

With their their contest guidelines.

But you could do some sort of a contest to your audience and, and to encourage them to, you
know, promote you guys.

I don't know, like.

And if you've had multiple businesses on multiple restaurants, it could be that you give.

You go back to them. And you know, when I used to go to these restaurants and get.

They'd always give me. I'd go and spend a hundred bucks to go, here's 200.

I would say to them, I'm giving this, I'm sending this out to my list of wasn't even that big a 
thousand Kelowna homeowners.

And they'd say, oh, and every time they would give me a better deal than what I spent and 
then I would send that out.

And so if you did, if, especially if you had restaurateurs on your show, you go to those 
restaurateurs and then just do a campaign around.

We want to celebrate local. Local colona food, you know, whatever. And you could do it.

They could be done in a batch.

It could be three or four of them all in one, one in one campaign, you know, or it could be a 
couple emails that you send out.



But that could be a way to do it.

But I think that's not a bad idea to get that social proof from the Colonial.

Yeah. And I think there's two things, right?

Like I want to grow the list because when there are opportunities like something in, like a.

A rate special or something in the industry, like we would love to capitalize on that.

But you know, with the mail out list of 3500 people and I got no traction for ownwell, it did 
dawn on me, like sometimes I need to go back to my boring business, like keep things 
simple.

And that's what's always like driven the success for me.

So I could have easily probably thought of five people to just call that I've spoken to in the 
last month and spend 10 minutes on the phone.

And I could have probably converted those five instead of casting. Yeah, yeah, instead of 
casting.

Or four out of the five. But here's what I would say. Yeah, I'd say do that.

But also I think that going from the. You haven't sent out very many.

An email list needs to be warmed up.

There is a warming up process where you want to do small things to remind them who you 
are and also to show to me that's a big to go from hardly emailing them to hey, you want to 
that.

That it seems it f almost like in my mind if I hadn't Heard from you in a while.

I might think your account. Yeah, I honestly would think that. I think that this seems like 
what.

This is weird because.

But if you do the value smaller incrementally and they see it consistently, then it's different.

And to your point, there are times, and this happens every couple years where there's going 
to be a.



This rate opportunity where you're in this perfect spot where you have a lender that's still 
dragging their heels, and you can send an email and make $100,000 from that email because
of the delta between the opportunity and what's in the marketplace.

But to make that $100,000 email, it doesn't happen estate because you've stayed top of 
mind.

And then you can, when the time comes, you can send that email and they'll. They'll pay 
attention.

So I think that you. I think it's both. I guess what I'm saying is you're right.

If you picked up a phone and called 10 people, if you didn't get eight of them onboarded, I'd 
be shocked.

And if you put together a consistent strategy, just like you have with your podcast, but you 
should be doing a consistent communication strategy in email as well as the podcast, and 
it'll.

And then even if you're just sending people back to your episodes, that's a good.

It's going to drive downloads, it's going to remind them what you do.

And that's also a good strategy and really simple. Like, you don't have to.

Yeah.

And I think.

It's tough to quantify, obviously.

Like, I mean, it's not in terms if you go down the open rate, but it's tough to quantify, like, 
the conversations that happen behind the scenes.

So, like with the podcast.

Right.

Been doing it for three and a half years now, we just kind of plug along and like, we, you 
know, we're doing our thing.

And then you'll go to, like, I'll go to an event or a birthday party or something.



And some people like, oh, yeah, like the podcast. How's that going? How's it?

And I'm like, oh, I had no idea you, you, you knew about it.

Yeah, yeah, it's great to even listen to it.

So I think with the mail list too, like, it's a little, you know, disheartening, being like, wow, it 
landed flat.

But, but I don't know, behind the scenes, if, you know, five people are talking about it with 
their friends that I have no connection with, you know, so that might be like, A referral 
that's coming in the next month or two.

So. Yeah. And you can't. Yeah. And again, I think the consistency beats the.

Like a crazy offer is okay, but consistency is way more valuable. And so the.

Now that you've started that, I would just say keep doing it like you have with your podcast, 
but bake it into your workflow and make it really simple to.

To execute on and with.

One of the things could be driving people back to your episodes just to say, hey, this one had
great downloads at the end of the year.

Here's my number one downloaded show. You can send that out.

There's a lot of things you can do with or by top five downloaded shows over the last 12 
months.

And then people go, oh, I want. And then they want to see that. Right.

And the topics are local and they're relevant. And it's. You're still adding value to the.

Your list, even if it's not financial, it's value in terms of information.

Obviously, people are listening to your show, so that would be a thought on that.

And we did talk about AI doing some stuff, and I know that you had sent me some and I 
hadn't got to it.

So I know that that was one of the things we're going to push off till a future episode.



Just using some AI to replace you in some. Some of your content, which we will.

We'll have to circle back to that.

The other thing I think about with your list, which could be an interesting idea, is to do a 
webinar on a topic that would be pertinent to them, because then the people that are 
interested will put their hand up.

If you've got 3,500 people and you get 50 people that show up to a webinar on a topic, that 
is.

That's really good. Right? So if you could. What if you did. Is a couple ideas.

You could do something on, you know, renewals, you know, something to do with your 
mortgage, you know, five mistakes you make before you sign a renewal, something to that 
effect.

You could do something on the local Airbnbs where you bring on the other person, they 
listen to the episode.

But the webinar could be just going through, hey, how do I convert my place into Airbnb 
legally?

And. Or whatever. Whatever that, you know, the questions, whatever the key questions are. 
And you.

And then people are putting their hand up. And that's something you could run once a 
month.

And that could be something that is embedded into that list and is of value add.

I know that like Bernadette does a ton. She has webinars every month on first time buyers 
on.

There's a few different categories, investors. And so inviting people to something is a value.

Yeah.

There seems to be a lot of chatter right now about GST rebate, even like in the ILM B 
community, which seems like nobody.

Nobody wants to give advice on that. No lawyers, CPAs, lenders. Yeah.



Do you have a lawyer that will talk about it?

But if I could find a partner to do that with, I think that would be massive because, like.

But then do that as a. Don't do it as a.

You can make it a podcast after, but do it as a webinar where they can ask questions. And 
then you.

It. It could be a two part. You could do it as two parts.

One, you do a webinar that's sent to your list that's early.

You finish the webinar and then you do a podcast with the guest afterwards. And.

And then your guests get to be kind of in.

In the inner circle of asking questions that could be valuable because now they get to talk to 
your guests.

This is. Actually.

I should.

I should do this. This is a damn good idea, Taylor.

Imagine I did a webinar, so I just did a podcast with a guy, Joel Olson. You got to listen to it.

It's freaking. He is smart, man. And I've had him on before.

And I could see doing a webinar with somebody like him beforehand where it's Q and A and 
then going into the recording so that the insiders get to ask their questions of your experts.

That's a. I'm talking to you and me at the same time.

I'm going to charge.

I'm going to noodle around.

Yeah, no, that's a great idea, I think. Okay, I'm gonna.

I'm gonna dive down into that because the gsd, honestly, man, has been a wild ride the last 



couple weeks with some files, and every lender seems to be taking a bit of a different stance 
on it.

And like, if you look on ILM B right now, it's. It's very active.

So I think that would be a good one.

Right. Okay. And then what is your bottleneck right now?

So the only thing we've kind of. We changed.

I don't want to, like, have Shiny Object all year, but we started out the year with Broker Edge
as a CRM.

We went over to my Broker Pro, had it for a few months, and then we just switched back 
over to.

To Broker Edge. Nothing like negative about, you know, either of them.

I loved brokerage when I was there, thought I could do something that was more robust.

And honestly, again, this is just for me personally. I got massively overwhelmed. I just 
couldn't.

Couldn't figure it out that well.

So, again, like, I had some good conversations with other brokers after our last show that 
just kind of reached out and the message was pretty clear.

It's like, boring businesses make money, you know, like, it's just. So I, I need to kind of reset.

I know this year is going to be a lot of trial and error with this, with this kind of series, and I 
have to, you know, put myself out there and try new things.

But that was something we tried for a few months. It didn't work. We switched back.

So it has caused a little bit of like, administrative work to, to switch our systems back over.

But that, that was the bottleneck.

Right, I see. You know, it's.

I heard somebody say before, you want a boring business in an exciting life, and a boring 



business can make money.

It's. But if you set fires in your business, just.

I've been, you know, guilty of this because I love. I'm great at.

Kate, I was paramedic for nine years. Give me nine, one, one.

I'm awesome in an emergency, but I shouldn't be setting fires just so I can be like, oh, a fire.

I can put it out.

It's like, how about don't start the fire and just focus on doing the boring work, you know?

But I'm getting more mature as I go.

It's a tough one. Like, you got to.

You got to try new things and you got to, like, take feedback from other people on what's 
working and what's not, otherwise you'll never evolve.

But, yeah, my. My broker probe seemed awesome. It was just a bit complex for what we 
needed for.

For Cat and I in our business. So we're switching back.

Do you think. I have a question for you.

Do you think you're going to need to hire any more staff in the next year? What are your 
thoughts?

So Cat's taking two weeks off in a week from now.

You're probably thinking.

So, yeah, we've been trying to, like, dial in all the systems and clean up files be.

Before she goes, you're going to have to learn how to do things you.

Don't remember how to do, brother.

So, you know, I. I had my couple weeks off and we traded day rates and then she's doing the 
same thing.



So we have that structured. But yeah, I think the last week since we've been so busy.

There are some files that have sat on my desk for, you know, five, six days where I just 
haven't had a chance to get back to them.

I was like, okay, I'm probably going to start to lean that direction in hiring someone.

And we had a good call on our. So you host.

Was it bi weekly?

Like every second Thursday? I kind of forget.

Yeah, yeah. Thursdays we do.

Yeah. And it's production, it's mastermind. Like, thank you.

So you break it down into certain levels for revenue or files for. For agents at Bricks.

And Kristen and Jared came on last show or last recording and like, awesome.

And they run a very similar business in terms of, like, what I have for my team member.

What do they call it?

Like a BRM role instead of fulfillment and an underwriter kind of have somebody that does 
it all.

And that's. That's really kind of what I have with Cat right now. And the light bulb went off.

It was like. Instead of like hiring an.

A quote unquote underwriter for that, you know, 10% of the file that needs to be done.

I gotta find somebody like Cat. We gotta find Cat 2.0.

And then since there's three of us and everyone can cover for each other, but everyone has 
like their own superpower.

Especially when, you know, I do want Kat to take time off. So. Yeah, that's.

That's definitely been right.



You should try to find somebody with the name Kit. And you can be like, this is Kit.

You couldn't help yourself.

Right? That's my ADD I was like, I was sitting up. Wait, stop talking so I can say this. This is.

It may not be funny anybody else.

It's funny to me, but I've been watching that show Love on the Spectrum.

If you've heard of this show, it's basically people on the spectrum.

And with Meredith and my son came in the room and he's like, dad, if it wasn't for Meredith,
you'd be on that show.

I'd take it as a compliment. I love the show. Like, they're pretty.

They just say what they mean and they're pretty. Pretty authentic. So,.

Yeah, it is. It's like, it's very childlike in a way. And I. I'm.

I'm like, yeah, my people finding love. This is my thing. So it's. It is.

Compared to a lot of the dating shows out there. It's.

So yeah, I think that that was like a catalyst.

Like, it after hearing Jared and Kristen speak was like, yes, this is. This is.

You Are you? Yeah, exactly. It was just one degree shift or not even.

It was just a confirmation that you have the right model. Just don't, absolutely, don't mess it.

It was like, oh, somebody else is doing this. And they're both very successful and they're.

So what they've done is they now have, you know, there's obviously two of them.

They kind of share the main business together and then they have two BRMs, like one each.

So then they can kind of like.

Maybe explain that for anybody listening because I. Yeah.



So they've joined forces.

Two totally independent brokers decided to make one kind of business as a team.

They still operate independent files, independent geographical locations and they both have
like one assistant slash team member who does fulfillment and underwriting, like start to 
finish.

So Jared and Kristen will kind of in, you know, intake the lead, send them the application 
documents, application, everything will be done before they jump on their discovery call, 
which is the same as me.

It's a discovery slash strategy call. Like it's kind of all in one.

And then once, you know, the files been underwritten by their BRM model, they're ready to 
submit and their BRM takes it kind of start to finish.

So Jared and Kristen are kind of the business operators, like looking at the big picture.

They're the lead gen, they're the referral partner conversations.

They're obviously going to be putting out some fires and coaching some creativity on how 
to, how to get files done.

But at the end of the day it allows the client to just work with Jared and one person instead 
of.

It's like, hey, I'm Jared. Hey, here's the underwriter. Hey, here's the fulfillment.

Hey, here's the client concierge.

Like it, you know, so you just want that as minimal people involved.

So it feels like the client, you know, has that one, one person to communicate with.

So in their model, if one of them is busier, then they can work, share like that, load a little bit
with their BRMs.

Whoever kind of has the most files, they just kind of flop, flop back and forth.

So yeah, I think it's, it's awesome.



It's more, it's more like the Scotiabank model versus some of the lenders that have 
fulfillment.

And then they have like there's 14 people in there and is this file done? Like, where am I at?

And there's no broker that we, we, we prefer to work with one person.

And I'm sure our clients for as.

Few people as possible because you're like, you're getting answers and it is mind blowing.

Like every other lender doesn't have that and you, you submit it.

They. Some of them do. Some of them have it at like the top level.

If you do it at volume, they'll give you a dedicated one person. But. But it's.

It's not, it's not typical. It still. It wouldn't be the majority, which doesn't minority.

It doesn't make a lot of sense to me.

Like, I understand they're two different skill sets, but if you can find that unicorn and, and 
have them and Jared and Kristen, you know, kind of spoke about it is now they have two 
people that are competitive and learn from each other and drive each other and like they 
both want to outperform and both help educate.

So instead of just having that one person, you're actually having somebody else kind of co.

Train as you go.

So yeah, it was total confirmation now that I've heard somebody else doing that 
successfully, that's the direction I want to go.

And I like to how Jared is really good at process.

He builds the processes and the CRM stuff and Kristen is really good with the people, so she 
manages that.

So as two partners in the business, effectively they've got different skill sets that, that are 
complimentary.

Not. They don't both have the same. They're not.



They're not both trying to do the same job, which really works out great for both of them.

I, I feel like their, their potential, their revenue from that business is better than almost 
anything that we.

I've seen and I've looked at a lot of business models and it's very.

Yeah. The amount of volume they're doing with four collective people is incredible. So.

Yeah, that's bonkers.

Yeah.

So flick the switch.

That's amazing. Yeah. You're gonna do the same thing. Okay.

So yeah, I think that you're on the right track with this stuff.

We'll work on the AI thing between now and our next call. I think the email list just keep it 
going.

You don't need to overthink it and consider try it out a man. If you.

What would a webinar look like possibly to that list of.

And then the people on the list that are in certain categories.

If you own an Airbnb, you're going to want to go to this now. You know who does.

Like there could be a way.

This could be a way for you to also you've got this 3,500 people that you probably don't 
know what their situation are.

Yeah. And this help I like the webinar idea for sure. And yet. Yeah.

And if you did, here's the other thing.

If you did a webinar, let's say if it was around the renewal, something around renewals or 
around your mortgages coming up for renewal, you know, here the five mistakes that'll cost 
you at least $10,000 come to this webinar and at the end of it, pitch own.



Well, you probably get way more of them sign up, they'll be like done.

Because now they're going to see it versus a cold email.

They, they just got value, value, value, value. And then you move them into the we.

And I can't, I can't imagine that wouldn't convert much higher if it.

As long as it wasn't bolted on as a, if you, if you thought of a way that lead to it that it makes 
sense.

Right. So just as a thought, let's see what to do with it.

But I always love these conversations, man. It's great. Where can people find you on 
mortgages.com.

Or Instagram venture mortgages, colonial real estate podcasts and yeah, I've actually been 
getting some calls from people other brokers across the country just, just wanting to chat 
and I love it, man.

There's lots of value there.

So yeah, reach out. Right? Amazing. Reach out if you have any questions. Thanks buddy.

Hey, thanks again for listening and hopefully you were inspired by my conversation by 
Taylor.

And if you want to get plugged into a community of mortgage brokers who are motivated 
like Taylor that want to get better, better, I do a mortgage mindset daily call every day, 
Monday to Friday, 6am Pacific.

And if you're interested in that, if you want to get your head straight, it's a tough market 
right now, but there are people that are having record years.

I encourage you to check that out. Click on the link of the show notes.

Check out the our mindset daily calls and the we we basically take a book that we go 
through as a group and I do coaching on it and we go deep instead of this wide.

Like there's lots of content out there and you can go really wide.

But do you actually get any better?



Right now our next topic is going to be on the book this classic work, how to Win Friends 
and influence People.

It's going to be and we're going to rework that for mortgage brokers.

If you're interested, just either comment, you know, shoot me an email Scott of Mortgage 
Brokering or click on the link of this and or check, check out me out on Instagram you'll get 
a final link to that.

Thanks for listening, and I will see you on the next episode.