Why cutting your own grass might be.

Slowing the growth of your mortgage business. Hey, I'm Scott Peckford.

In today's episode, I'm doing a series with Nate Adkin on growing his mortgage business to 
100 million in production.

And I do a couple things. One, we check in on his pipeline, how that's going.

We talk about his hiring process, mistake he almost made and how he pivoted.

We talk about how the best candidates when it comes to hiring are often gone quickly and 
how to solve that and why hiring an underwriter may not be the first hire for you.

There's lots more in this episode and if you're wanting to scale a business, you're going to 
love these conversations.

Go back and listen to the previous ones I've done with Nate since we started at the 
beginning of the year.

Before we jump into these this episode, I want to give a shout out to our sponsor, Omwell.

Omwell is an amazing, amazing tool for Canadian brokers to engage with their past clients.

It sends these awesome reports on a monthly basis that essentially is their home equity 
buying power.

And they get 60 to 70% open rates and create conversations.

And also Omil will find deals in your database.

Check them out at Omel Ca Scott, and check out this conversation with Nate.

Hey, Nate, welcome back to the show.

Scott. Pleasure to be back. Thank you.

So let's get an update, I guess before we jump in, there's some things you were doing hiring.



You're trying to find the right person. We'll get into that.

But maybe an update on pipeline, where that's at right now. I know that.

And then we'll jump into kind of where you're at and then what's the next thing we're going 
to tackle for sure.

Happy to. Yeah.

Last time you spoke, I remember the numbers were I was kind of taking a little bit of a step 
back to take a step forward and happy to say that that was done now.

So it's been really, really consistent and super busy.

All the systems we put in place are a bit, you know, super effective right now. So we've got.

Here's the numbers right here based on from today's CRM. We've got funded closed 9 
million.

We've got broker complete waiting to close 5.4 million. We've got apps pending 12 million.

And I've got apps received 6 million. Got to get to those.

That's why I'm hiring pre approvals, 9 million. So we've got total.

Of course, it won't all go through, but there's about 36 million sitting there total.

Right. That's amazing. In the first six months of the year. Not even six months. Okay.

So last time we chatted, we had talked about hiring and stuff. So what did you do? What 
worked?

What was that experience like? All that's good stuff.

Yeah, Amazing.

Wow.

I'll tell you, I can't remember how deep we got into the process I was going to be using or if 
we did it all.

But I did end up taking, of course, your recommendation and mentorship on utilizing the 



resources of an HR professional company.

That way it wouldn't take. I wouldn't have to be doing all of the work and my work.

So you were right.

When we sat down and ran all the time that would be used for, like going through resumes, 
communication, all the different platforms of finding somebody.

And of course, not being a professional in hiring for a mortgage underwriter as it is, just 
decided to go with that role and it was the best thing I ever did.

Shout out to that.

I don't know, I want to give a props to any particular companies on the platform here, but 
shout out to them.

They were incredible, amazing.

Did some interviews with some folks and as of right now, I'm not sure when this will air, but
as of right now, I have found who will be my underwriter.

Super excited about that. Can't wait. It can be actually doing the hiring next week.

So by the time we speak next, I'll have a lot to talk about on how the onboarding is going to 
be.

Right. Okay. And so what was the experience like?

And so if anybody's interested, you can always reach out to Nate about who you use.

So you can give your own personal recommendation. Feel free to do that.

But what was the experience like in using the HR like, versus, you know, again, trying to do 
it yourself?

Yeah, great question.

And having other companies and having hired before, I've got kind of both sides of things, so
I can relay how that went compared to me doing it on my own.

Obviously, when you outsource things and delegate things, there's, you know, companies 
costs there, there's cost to it, but what is it worth to you?



And in this case, it was definitely worth it, I can tell you.

And by the way, it's not expensive at all to do this how to use the service.

But, you know, it was very simple.

It was just kind of like having initial intake with the HR company asking me, you know, 
specifically what I'm looking for.

But.

But more importantly, they dove deep into, like, how my systems are right now, how the 
company is structured, what my goals are, what the future looks like, what my plans are, 
how I am as an operator, all that kind of stuff.

So they could really match up and marry up the candidates with not just where I am and 
where I've been, but where I'm going and what my overall philosophy is.

So they were very holistic that way. It was awesome.

So what they did, they have a very, very technology based company where they kind of send
you, you know, they send you kind of good after the candidates have already been whittled 
down.

Right. So they are.

There's a lot. And that's a lot of work. It can be a lot of work in that.

Right.

It's kind of like, it's kind of like you imagine holding out a big huge funnel and all kinds of 
stuff comes in the funnel, whether it's good stuff, bad stuff, all kinds of stuff.

And you kind of want to really whittle it down to like just the really good gold nuggets at the
bottom.

Right.

So they kind of give you the gold nuggets at the end that really, really match up with what 
you're looking for.

So that I can watch actual zoom recorded interviews of the candidates and then respond 



back to the HR company saying yay.

Yay or nay. And then I can take the next step and do the interview then myself subsequently.

So which is what I did. And, and wow. Like, it's such a streamlined process.

Cannot recommend it enough.

Yeah.

What I found is that we've had people, we've got more staff and we, we used to do it 
ourselves.

We use nature. We don't anymore.

We use a contractor because if it's somebody's like side job on the side of their desk, they're 
not, they don't have the same time to dedicate.

And what happens if you take a while to get back to people? The best people are gone.

They will like anybody who's good and all of a sudden comes on the market.

But and this has happened to us, we're like, okay, we, we've got to get people organized to 
do that initial interview by the time that takes another week and they go, oh, we already got 
offered a job and I'm taking it.

It's like, dang it, we didn't even get a crack at it.

And so I find that to get the best people you want to be able to be respond promptly.

And having someone who does this for a profession versus you is going to be much better.

Yeah. Funny you mentioned that. Right. Isn't that true for everything that we do.

So I can correlate that to two things. You're very, very true.

So one of them was in my early years as a real estate investor having properties and doing.

When I used to do the tenant placements myself, I found that if I didn't respond to the good 
tenants immediately, they were gone.

They already found a new place.



100%.

Same thing with leads as a mortgage broker. Right.

Like if you get a lead, if you don't respond that lead immediately, like if you don't have some 
kind of system in place that responds right away, they're just going to go to the bank or go 
to another broker.

Same thing with a good hire. If they're a good hire, they know they're a good hire.

They could find a job easily. So you got to respond right away. That's.

That's the benefit of having that company.

Right. And then you can just.

Because if you're spending time doing all this sorting and sifting, you are not.

You can just go find another mortgage or another three, four mortgages, and you're way 
better off because it's actually what you get paid for instead of.

It's like a plumber who decides to do the, you know, the framing for his house. Yeah, he 
might have.

It's like, you're going to be way slower, man. Just do another plumbing job and pay a.

Pay a framer to do it. Right.

You know how valuable that is?

And this is going to be super valuable for the listeners because just the other day I was 
sitting in at home and I was working.

It happened to be the weekend and I was working.

I was just doing a couple of things for a mortgage file.

And I had had actually pretty well got a deal done just sitting there. And I could hear.

I, I hire landscapers to do landscaping at my house. I've done it now for a while.

And I said to Tanya, I'm like, you know what?



This is the thing that some people don't recognize and realize that I could be cutting the 
grass and weed whacking and doing all this stuff on my own, which I used to do when we 
first moved in years ago.

And that would take two, three hours of my time. And.

Or I could pay the landscapers the, you know, 120 bucks a week or whatever it is to do it 
and make thousands of dollars closing a mortgage.

That took me, you know, half the time. So that's a perfect example of just.

The way you make. We make way more per hour, even if you're not fast as a mortgage 
broker.

So then hire people at a lower. And they'll be faster than you too. Right.

Like, the reality is, is that they're going to be even.

There'll be less per hour, and they'll be much faster at it than you. And I think it's.

HR is no different than. Than any other things when it comes to your mortgage stuff.

So one of the things we talked about was the idea of letting go and. And how. So now what is
your.

You haven't let go yet.

I know you're going to, but what is going through your mind now that you have to think 
about?

Okay, I've got this person that I'm going to be hiring because that's another part that people 
struggle with.

I am excited only because I've done it before. Right.

So I did go through that early on in other businesses where it was very difficult because no 
one does it like Nate.

Right. No one does it like Scott. Right. So, um, it was difficult.

I'd say thank God to that because most of.

I know. So true. It's so true.



But I went through that already, so I already know what that feels like.

And this time around, of course, I am very, very, very excited.

I cannot wait to hand over the reins to the things for two reasons.

One, because I already know that this particular person is way more qualified and way 
better at underwriting than me.

Like, way better.

They've got way more files under their belt.

Like, oh, I think she has 17 years of experience. Like, she's good.

She's better than I'll ever be at underrated. I'm excited about that.

I think the only thing for me will just be, like I said, because I've hired before in other 
companies.

This is going to be the first real hire for Hummingbird Mortgages.

So it's just going to be the actual on.

I don't have actual full SOPs in place yet for hiring and onboarding. So this is going to be in.

Fortunately for me, the person I'm talking to, she's aware of that.

She's really excited about the fact that she's going to be part of the growth early on in the 
company, can help build them.

Because she's done it.

Yeah, she's done it before. So she's excited about that as well, which I'm.

I am, like, very grateful for.

So it's not as though it's somebody who's going to be like, oh, well, this is like an awkward 
kind of onboarding transition.

No, no, no. She understands where I'm coming from.



She's going to help with that and we're going to make it, you know.

You know, hopefully it's going to be a nice, collaborative, seamless process where we're 
going to build SOPs together.

So I'm super pumped for. I think it's gonna be awesome.

Right, that's actually, it'd be an interesting thing for us to discuss.

Is your game plan for, like, what is your game plan for utilizing all of the brain power that 
she has and the skill that you have in order to, to expedite and create efficient SOPs.

It's going to make great, great podcasts for us because it will.

Yeah. But what.

I guess even before we do it, like what I just, this is like before you've even put the shovel in 
the ground.

What are you, how are you thinking you want to go about having her implement this and 
you, you know.

Yeah, edit them.

I suppose I think of it as like they create them and you edit them to finalize for what works 
for Hummingbird and, and how you want it to go.

But yeah, yeah, totally.

Like, like I basically have already thought about how that might look and that's going to be 
like, you know, we've gone over the tech that I use, we've gone over the systems I use.

She has, she used them before.

Yes, exactly.

That's one learning curve that you can.

Yeah, the exact tech I use, she's, she's already been using for years.

So the beauty of it is that, you know, I'm can, I can invite her in and learn from her on maybe
the way that I'm using it that isn't as effective and how it can be used other.



In other ways in my entire client journey and how systematized it is and how we're going to 
work.

We've discussed and how the files will be handled right now how where the delineation is 
between my role and her role.

And you know that that'll just be a couple mock files and the way that she's going to start, 
which I'm also grateful for and I wasn't quite sure how I would attract somebody really 
good if it was going to be depending on how the structure would be.

And I said to her I'm open depending on the person for it being a full time thing, a part time 
thing, massaging into it.

And she said she's completely open to it too.

So the beauty of it is that we're going to be able to start off on a little bit of a more like A part
time introductory basis where we get into it.

It's not like all of a sudden, there it is. Right.

So it's going to be nice to kind of massage and do it and see what works best so that we can 
build it the way it needs to be built, not rush it.

Right? Yeah, that's a good idea. And you have a customer journey mapped out, right?

Yeah, very, very, very detailed customer journey. Very.

That'll be really helpful.

Like I tell people, if you don't have that done and you hire someone, it's like you have a 
restaurant with no recipes and then they come in the kitchen and they don't know what to 
do.

And this way you have a recipe.

It doesn't mean you're not going to update them or they're not going to have ideas like, hey, 
add some more salt here, more spice.

And you're like, yeah, that sounds great, but you do need to have something to start with.

Yeah. Oh yeah, without a doubt. 100%, Totally. Yeah. And fortunately you've been great at 
that.



You know, we've had a lot of discussions on and off camera about that.

So I pretty well have the game plan to start.

It's going to be really, really good, you know, for us to kind of recap and see how it goes so 
that other people can learn from the.

Mistakes and what works and what doesn't. Yeah.

And again, take, if you're listening, take what works for you and run, you know, run it that 
way.

Yeah.

What do you think's the next bottleneck going to be then? So I think that's the one.

I'll add one kind of thought on this whole sops.

There's a program called Scribe that you can use to record to basically create like SOPs 
based on what you're doing for functions.

And so it could be something great for her to build.

And also you, or you, you can just basically record what you're doing and then it creates the 
documents.

And so if there's any specific tasks that you want her, but also having her build them 
because maybe at some point you hire another person, you continue to grow.

And then there's a, there's a, you'll have the SOPs built for when you add another team 
member.

Right.

S, C R, I, B E SCRI Yeah, Scribe. Yeah.

And so it basically you just walk through the thing and then record it and it actually does 
screenshots and creates the whole document for you.

So it's really simple. Which again, there's these AI tools. Now. I was creating a Type form.

So I'm doing one on one coaching and I was realized I got to do an intake form for people 
and I, so I went into, you know, Claude and I said, here's what I want to do.



Give me, ask me questions. Then I said, great, now create a type form for this.

And then I said, how do I. And then I said, now give me.

How can I make it, I don't have to take all of it and create it line by line.

It said, oh, take this summary, drop it into the AI creator in type form.

And it made it in like eight seconds.

And I was, I thought in the past, so the speed up before was that would help me create the 
questions.

But then I, or something, my team would have to go in question one, question two and build 
the whole thing.

Now you just use the AI builder in that tool. And it made it in. It was 10 seconds.

It made the whole thing. I was like, wow. And, and I showed the team who normally does 
that.

So there's examples of how you can leverage AI to speed up internal processes, right?

Absolutely. Yeah.

I mean, okay, so what do you think is going to be the big bottleneck?

So let's say we get this, we get her onboarded, you start working.

We'll talk about that on the next call.

But what, what do you think is going to be your next bottleneck or thing that we want to 
tackle?

I know you probably know from all of your experience what I'll probably face.

So to be honest with you, I have, I'm looking right now at the immediate, immediate future 
going okay.

So my first task is going to be onboarding her successfully making sure that we're 
comfortable, everything is, everything is comfortable with her comfort level with the 
company, that we understand exactly how things work with her, with our systems, how 



we're going to work on files.

And then if I can ramp up my, continue to ramp up my lead gen and file count, you know, it 
will be probably one of two things based on my discussions with you.

I don't know, depending on her personality trait and her capacity, it might be me feeling like
I'm ready.

There, there, there will become a time where there will be a need for another hire and then 
perhaps this new hire will be in a position where they feel like I don't.

Depending on the compensation structure we talk about, maybe she'll be, have reservations 
with that or maybe she'll say, oh, that's great.

Yeah, definitely this time for a new hire. So that might be, we might get to that point.

Like that would be a good problem to have, but that could certainly be something that we, 
we walk into as well at some point.

We'll see how the lead gen goes and the volume goes over the next, you know, kind of 
quarter.

Right. Well, I have a couple thoughts on that.

So one would be this underwriter is probably going to handle some of your emails, but not 
all.

And so the next person could potentially be somebody that's more of like an EA role, that 
candle calendar, reaching out to leads right away, booking them into your calendar and then
because the underwriter is going to be the more expensive role than an EA and that can be a
way for you to become more efficient.

Right.

And so I think that could be a, that sort of a way to get more capacity because otherwise 
you're going to be doing it or the underwriter is going to be in there and dealing with stuff 
that they could, that this EA could be doing for you.

And this person doesn't necessarily need to be licensed as an ea.

I was going to say, let me ask you an EA question that will be beneficial for me and anyone 
listening is going to be this since I, I don't, I haven't hired an EA in this role.



So is this something that almost always would be like offshore was that what are the 
advantages and disadvantages of the EA that is like a, you know, a person that has local 
domestic experience in mortgages, experience in real estate versus somebody who has 
completely offshore company EA hiring virtual kind of thing.

Okay. So I have always, at least in the last few years my EAs have always been here, not 
overseas.

Now I have, we have VAs. I think of VA as a virtual assistant.

A virtual assistant and they will be hired for task specific things.

So for instance, the, you know, Lydie who takes care of the podcast and the production, she 
is a VA and but she has a very clearly defined set of tasks that are, they're, they're time 
dependent.

But it's not like is there a different time? So she does work, they do work night shifts.

So they basically work our, our schedule. But I find that works well for me.

I like having an EA that's here.

There's, there's the language piece, there's the being able to pick up the phone if they need 
to and call, you know that if there's some, something going on.

And so I, I have personally liked.

And then sometimes EA work can also spill over into your personal things that you can also 
have them help you with.

Just again, not like cutting your grass is, you can go close A mortgage or cut your grass.

The EA can be helping you with stuff that could be 80% work and 20% personal, ensuring 
things like, hey, I'm going on this trip.

Can you make sure the hotels get booked where I want to go and getting that in the calendar
and the flights get put in the calendar.

And so there's a lot of. I feel like with an ea, they really help me with my.

Everything to do with my inbox as well as my calendar. And they're looking ahead for me.

And essentially I just go where I'm told now. It makes it really easy. I just.



They're scheduling stuff they look at, and when I think of something I want to do, I go, hey, 
what about this?

And then they go, oh, but Scott, what about.

And how that's going to have this massive triple ripple effect that's like, oh, so now I don't 
even control my own calendar.

I just let.

Because they have more visibility and they know what's going on and I just show up and it 
makes it less stressful for me.

And I can just focus on the thing that actually I'm good at, which is not organizing my 
calendar for the next six months.

And so I feel like an ea. Here's what I would say to that.

The other piece is that, as you know, like, Kristen was at the broker talks and she talked 
about how she switched to the BRM model.

So that's having a single. Just her and one other person work on a file. I really like that 
model.

And I think that if you want to create a good experience, if you start adding in an 
underwriter, plus the fulfillment, plus all.

I don't know what your plan is.

It ends up creating more people, more cooks in the kitchen and creates a. I think it's really 
hard to create as good of an experience.

I mean, we as brokers love having a dedicated underwriter.

As soon as they add in a fulfillment and then, you know, person who's doing a second audit, 
it's like, oh, my God, like this file, will it ever close?

It creates frustration for you. So it'll be no different with your customer. So I think this.

If you can move this person and then it's also scalable because if you do start to grow, you 
can add another brm, right?



If you decide to get big enough that you're like, I need another one, you just get a second.

You know, think of it like a V8 engine.

You get another V8 engine and then they can cover for each other and versus somebody 
who's very Linear, you know, they only do this part of the process and someone else does 
the rest.

So to elaborate on that, for, for people who, who, you know, didn't hear her, haven't heard 
Kristen talk, the BRM model quite specifically the way that she has it structured.

So what I'm thinking when we say brm, it's more Scotia is the moat was the.

They were the originators. It was actually Maple Trust that did it, that I know of first.

And mapletrust got purchased by Scotia and then Scotia just kept it.

But essentially you have one person who works on the file and looks at the documents and 
signs off on it.

So then, you know, if there's a problem, you go to one person, you know that it's not like 
your underwriter says, this is fine.

And then the fulfillment person at the lender is like, no, this document's not right.

Or they got a check with the underwriter and they end up creating more delays versus the 
person making the decisions.

And so what she did, Kristen had had a similar model of that with like a couple different.

But she just said, you're going to own with this relationship is just going to be you and me 
working with this referral partner and you and she's got two assistants and me and this 
other person working with these other referral partners.

And what happens is that referral partners like it because then they have consistency.

They can go to one person. They got four files. They got one person to talk to about all four 
files.

And it's very. It's versus I got to talk to this person with that.

It's just like I get bounced around. It's really not a great experience.



And so I think if you can, from the, If I, knowing what I know now, if you can do this from the
beginning or at least build.

Have the plan to build that way, I feel like.

And keeping in mind the document stuff is going to get easier and more automated.

Like, that stuff is going to eventually be 20% of the work it is now or 10% of the work, in 
which case, even if it's the underwriter handling it, at least they're the person who's going to
have to sign off on it versus another person in there that's junior.

But where you can get more leverage is in your calendar in blocking out stuff for you, 
making sure that the stuff that needs to happen is in there.

And when new leads come in, they can be on them right away. They could be the person 
again.

This is great, having somebody local, they can pick up the phone and Say, hey, I saw you 
emailed Nate.

He's just on another call. He asked me to reach out. I'd love to book you in his calendar.

And then can I ask you a couple questions? Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.

Next thing you know, they're sending an email. You now you're jumping on a call.

You got an app, you got documents. Way more efficient.

And that's how you're going to create efficiencies for both of you.

And I don't know that having a fulfillment person specifically is the right move to my 
thinking now.

It's changed. The thing is, what you'd asked me five years ago, I'd say something different.

And so it's always evolving.

Right. I love the breakdown of the ea. I think that makes a ton of sense. For sure. Definitely.

Beautiful.

So I think the EA will be the thing for you. But then what about leads? Okay.



So let's just maybe dive into that for a second. What's your plan to.

Okay, once you buy back your time, as Dan Martel says, what are you going to.

What's the plan for going out and pushing up the production so that this becomes a 
investment that makes you money instead of you costing you money?

Yep.

Got a few tools that I'm using now that I plan on dumping into as well as the strategy which 
we talked about and we had one of our episodes we dove a bit deep into.

And that is referral partners. My referral partners are everything. As it stands right now.

I have obviously great relationships with Realtors.

I think that I need to continue to leverage OwnWell as a tool.

I've been talking with Dan about how we can do that and how they can help me with that.

Both with existing current clients and their files, but also, of course, expanding.

And then the other one is taking advantage of other referral partners. Almost like a Wally.

I don't know how to say his last name. Eli Berry or whatever it is.

Yeah, I think it's. That's how I say it.

I don't know. I got a book here. Right.

Just also leveraging the philosophy with the mostly financial advisors.

I do have a handful that are in my within arm's length of good connections that I've already 
soft touched.

But I haven't because I've been so busy with everything else.

I don't want to go out there and then drop the ball. So. So it's sitting there next.

So when I have that time, it's going to be taking advantage.

Yeah.



And we can.

Once you maybe in the next call we can dive.

If you've got a bit more bandwidth, our next podcast, we can dive into what you're doing 
and, you know.

Yeah, talk about that for sure. That's the plan.

Definitely.

Dude, this is exciting.

So what, anything else you think that we should chat about that would be useful for our 
listeners at this point for where you're at with this next hire and then.

Yeah, yeah, I think that.

I think we've kind of provided a whole slew of information in the first couple episodes on 
the hiring process, how it's gone, which is great.

I think.

I think that we will have some great information to talk about the next call when it comes to 
the actual onboarding, the best way to do it, maybe some of the holes I have found that are 
exposed as a result of that, that we'll see then.

And then. Yeah, of course, the, you know, lead. Lead.

Lead generation is everything in this business.

Because I wouldn't be in a scenario to have to hire if it wasn't for leads.

And constantly and always reminding people that no matter what happens, no matter how 
busy you get, you have to always commit to, you know, your lead generation, whatever that 
is for you.

If that's making 10 calls at 10, whether that's, you know, meeting with Realtors, whether 
that's doing events, whatever it is.

So I think what I would say for me is I heard we had.

We had the broker talks this past weekend for brx and there was a speaker on there, his 



name happens to be Scott, and he talked about the advantages of having things like a 
podcast for mortgage agents.

And also I also listened to a podcast that Scott did, and that was with the gentleman, I think 
his name was Joel, who does events.

He hosts realtor events, like he does.

Yeah, it was a week ago.

I think it was basically the lunch and learns, but he does them at coffee shops, so it's cheaper
because he's not having to pay for lunch.

If people haven't listened to that, go back and listen to it.

But I think that for me, being able to talk about that, leverage different strategies.

Like, for me, I'm a very. I'm a very, like, cultural out there kind of guy. Like, I love.

I love, you know, being a business owner.

I love my employees, I love staff, I love clients, I love leads, I love meeting people in person, I
love speaking.

So I think.

And you and I spoke a little bit off the record about the idea of potentially maybe starting a 
podcast.

I think that. That, you know, I got all kinds of different ideas for that.

And then you Know, potentially hosting events and kind of see.

Which maybe may be a better fit right now for my time.

But definitely one of those are going to happen for sure.

So stay tuned for that because I want to pick your brain about that and figure out which one 
to do and then get that rocking.

Go.

Go flat out on it.



Yeah.

I was just thinking, you know, I know that Cheryl Sanguine. Eddie. I'll send you an email 
after.

She has an onboarding checklist for new hires.

So I will get that for you. That.

That could be helpful. I mean, there'd be some of the stuff you made just so you don't forget.

Hey, if I'm going to hire someone, here's the stuff I need to remember to do.

I think that would be really useful.

The other great part about using an HR contractor is that they give you the contract, they 
can help you with the contracts and all that stuff.

Again, we're not professionals at this most unless you have a background.

You know, the rare mortgage broker who came from an HR background.

But most of us don't know what we're doing with it. And.

And we can use chat GPT, but let's be honest, it can lead you astray.

I'd rather get a professional, especially when it's.

There's rules that are different in each province and you can.

You can end up with lawsuits and all kinds of stuff.

Just like do it properly from the beginning, paper it.

And the great part is your contractor will help with that.

But Sheryl can help with the onboarding checklist in terms of.

Here's the stuff you need to think about when you hire an assistant, which I think would be 
really good for you and this new hire, that would be outstanding.

Yeah.



Appreciate that. Thank you.

People always neglect to understand that with the new hire, there's all sorts of legalities 
involved contractually, the way that the payment is structured, whether it's.

Are they an employee, do you got to set up payroll effectively? You got to register with cra.

Some people don't have that all set up yet.

Right.

So super important.

Amazing. Well, hey, man, I'm looking forward to our next chat.

Finding out what happens with this hire and.

And keep us posted and then we'll get into solving the next problem that I'm sure that's 
going to come up.

Yeah, me too. We'll dive deep for sure. Thank you, Scott. Looking forward to it.

Hey, thanks again for listening. And hopefully you got some ideas.

Inspiration from my conversation with Nate.

I know I'm always inspired after those conversations and I love just the takeaways that I get
and just his enthusiasm for this industry and his and and is also his experience what he's 
happening what's what he's seeing happening.

If you want to find out more about what I'm up to you can.

Follow me on Instagram if you want to.

We do these mindset calls on a weekly on a daily basis and you can find out about those as 
well.

Just hit me up on social or send me an email if you struggle with mindset or you know 
knowing what you need to do but don't follow through on it.

I think these mindset calls are really helpful. Reach out.



Be happy to help.

Thanks for listening. And as I always say, there's no.

Problem in your mortgage business someone else hasn't already solved.

Your problem is how do you find this answer when you need it.

This podcast is designed to provide some of those answers. Thanks for listening and I will 
see.

You on the next episode.