When we started this series, Nate was trying to figure out where his business would break.

Five months later, he's built a $40 million pipeline, hired his first team member, and in this 
episode we talk about the idea that there's always going to be a bottleneck in your business.

It never disappears, it just moves. And so the idea is that you need to find it and then solve 
it.

We also talk about how to clone your best partner and why going deep versus wide on 
referral partners is the best strategy.

Hey, I'm Scott Beckford.

This is the I Love Mortgage Brokering podcast and and this is designed to help you grow 
scale your mortgage business.

Before we jump into this episode, I want to give a shout out to Ownwell.

Ohmwell is an amazing tool for Canadian brokers to engage your database to find deals that 
are there.

In the database, it basically monitors your equity, your home buying power, and it sends 
you a monthly report with really high open rates as well as finds opportunities because it 
has the data to let you know that, hey, this person could save money by refinancing or they 
have equity.

Check them out. Omwell ca and check out this episode with Nate. Hey, Nate, welcome back, 
brother.

Hey Scott, great to be back. Thank you.

So I'd love to get an update on two things, your pipeline and your hiring, how that's going 
and then we're going to jump into kind of planning what's next for you to keep scaling.

For sure. Let's do it. Okay. Pipeline.

We've continued to the trajectory, headed in the right direction.



So we've got this is as of the end of the first week in June, kind of like five months in. Right.

We got 13 million funded, 3 million broker complete, 3.5 million approved, another million 
and a half submitted, 8 million in applications received, and 12 million in pre approval.

So we're at about the 40 million dollar teetering of the 40 million dollar mark around mid 
June.

Right. Okay. Amazing. And hiring update, how's that going?

Yeah, hiring update. Yeah. So good. I want to jinx it. Finger crossed.

But I don't know how far we got with the last call, but I found my hire. Super excited about 
it.

We've gone through the process of. I'm really grateful that she is in the same pace that I'm 
on.

She's got a long term mindset and she's coming from a place where she's not like crazy 
unhappy.

She's just super excited to join with me.

So that means that we're able to transition nice and effectively.

So we've been working on connecting and just talking about, like, the systems I have in 
place, the client journey in place, the tech I use, making sure that when the official transition
happens, make it comfortable and kind of like hit the ground running rather than taking 
extra time sitting there like, you know, I don't have a whole bunch of help.

So I think that we've got a good process to transition.

Right.

And you're not just saying, hey, start full time tomorrow where it's going to take all your 
time to get her caught up.

You do it gradually so you can.

Yeah, if you had more support in place, you might be able to do that, but you don't.

So you have to just do it smart. Right.



Interestingly, actually right now, so two things.

One that leads me to think of what you said to me before, which is it's great if I while we do 
this, to maybe help to utilize Heard by using Scribe, which is a format where we can create 
SOPs so that maybe my next hire isn't as much of a difficult task.

And the other is that my son is now also a BRX mortgage agent.

And so, interestingly enough, he's in my office.

So my time now is now split in a few different ways just because I get the old, like, tap on the
door, hey, dad, can you tell me this?

Hey, what can I do with this? What you do with that?

So I'm super happy, super, like, grateful for it, of course.

But as again, it's a little bit more of my time that's divided a little bit.

So again, Reese, if you're listening to this, I love you. I'm more than happy to help you.

So come into my office anytime by. By virtue of time.

Like, yeah, so it's getting divided a little bit. So yeah, I'm grateful that she's open to that.

And that way it's kind of like the transition will be nice and smooth and then when she does 
start, it'll be like she knows what to do.

Not another step back of my time.

That's good. Okay, so what's next?

What do you think is the next area of bottleneck that you want to work on?

I think I know, but I want you to tell me.

Yeah, okay. I think I know. Then you can tell me how I'm wrong.

So I think it's going to be, you know, now that we're going to be buying back this time, the 
purpose is to be able to guess if I take a step back where we started, you and I, at the 
beginning, identifying the bottleneck was kind of like, let's say, for example, you were to like
triple your workload.



Where will things back up? Right.

And break first.

Where is it going to break? We identified. Okay, clearly it's me, all me.

So if I were to have to underwrite all these files and do all that, it's going to collapse.

So here's that hire to go ahead and help to alleviate that particular bottleneck.

So now my goal is going to be to continue to bring in as much organic business as possible 
and as much business as we can.

So again, it's going to be turning to lead generation, refocusing on lead gen. And I think that I
have a somewhat of a dependency on my realtor relationships right now, which I love.

I think that's great.

But I think that perhaps maybe getting you to help me with diversifying that a little bit into 
maybe some other areas of partnerships that don't just depend on realtors or.

You mean, you may tell me that that's a dumb idea.

Nate, you should go into what you're good at and stay and just Maxim.

So I don't know, but I'm just thinking about lead gen partners, how to leverage that and then
maybe other avenues we can dive into.

Things like podcasts or events or.

I know that your talk, I mentioned it before, I really loved your talk with Joel and maybe 
talking about those kinds of things.

So basically the big picture is bringing in business and then maybe the best way to do it.

Okay, amazing. So really it's about lead gen. This is going to be all about legion.

So I always like to start with just analyzing where your business is coming from right now.

Like I think Alex Ra says, more better news. So what can we do more of?

What can we do better and then what before we think of new?



So if you look at your pipeline, you got 40 million in it right now.

Where does the split of that come from? From what sources?

So at the beginning of my business it was almost exclusively, you know, realtor partnerships
and very little of just like, you know, database stuff.

And now I'm getting a little bit more database work because we, we do such a good job in 
our client journey, making people so happy and satisfied, but it's still very over leveraged in 
terms of Realtors.

I would say it's going to be 80% at some point. It's come from a realtor partnership.

And then the other 20% is going to be renewals, relationships, referrals from clients that are
already in my database.

80% Realtors. And how many realtors refer you consistently?

Consistently, I would say about 10 good, like, consistent, really good partners.

And then I've got another 10 that are kind of like, you know, I'll get a few a year, like, little 
loose.

And then a few more that are trying. Maybe their clientele is just not as reliable.

Trying to be diplomatic, but yeah.

So you got 10 that refer you.

And of the 10, like, what would you estimate if you take a scan in your pipeline, what 
percentage of that business is from those 10 people versus the other sources?

Probably like 50%.

Okay. And then how many people are sending you?

And then how many referrals are we talking you have on your top 10 list?

Like, what is the number one person sending you versus the number 10?

Number one person would be sending me five a month kind of thing. It's very consistent.

I would consider it to be like a law. Right. And then, you know, they're busy realtors.



They're good at what they do.

And these are not donkey files, you know, like, these are ones that are.

It's either it's a purchase, it's in place. It's a pre approval for someone that's going to buy.

Like, these are not like cold leads that came in my Facebook marketing.

And they're going to throw them to Nate.

Right. And they just throw them to. Yeah, these are people that are very much qualified.

One person that sends you about five leads a month.

So if you had more of that person, what would that look like for your business?

So that's always the first thing is like, how would I possibly clone the top and not even the 
top 10.

The top four probably account for most of it. Be real.

The top one to four, what would that look like for your business and how do you think you 
could do.

I have some ideas, but I wanted your ideas.

How do you think you'd get more that type of relationship?

It's a super big question.

And I guess the relationship has been built on trust, on familiarity, on likeness, and then of 
course, on delivering.

Right. On both sides of coin.

So if I were to reverse engineer and go back to how those relationships started, I think that I
could probably do my best to try to simulate that know and then maybe create that trust 
again.

I think that the difficulty is, and I think other mortgage brokers will relate to this.

You don't always know. Like, my realtors are great people.



They're awesome, but not all of them are killers.

Right. So it's kind of like, right, hey, you can't tell.

Can't tell that that's the tough part.

So it's like, hey, we have a great relationship and he's a solid dude or she's a solid gal.

And I think they've got great clients. They're trying really hard. They just don't go through.

Right. So that's the hard part to predict a little bit.

Okay, now the top realtors that you have, like this person sending you five, are they a team?

Is it an individual? What do they have?

Are complete individuals. One's got a small team, another two have like medium sized 
teams.

Are you getting the referrals from the entire team or just the one or two people?

No, I found over time that, you know, no matter how big a team is or how small a team is, 
you don't get all of the deals from all of them because some of them have their own 
preferred people, their own partners.

Right. So you don't get all of them.

But I do have one team that I work closely with that I absolutely love them all. Phenomenal 
humans.

And I get the majority of the work from the people that are on that team.

There's, you know, let's say like from five of the eight realtors, I pretty well get almost all 
their deals.

So that's one. But other than that, it's really just like super solid individual relationships.

Right. Okay, so a couple of thoughts on this to help you expand it.

One, I would ask, especially if they don't have a team of realtors that you work with sending 
you, the business is like, if you go on vacation, who covers for you?



And the reason you ask that question is that whoever covers them, if you have such a great 
relief, they're going to like attracts like.

And so they're going to be the kind of person that you connect with.

Often it's an easy way to clone someone. It would be just to be asked that question.

Hey, you go on vacation, I'm curious who would cover for your listings or take care of your 
clients?

And maybe they got a team member, but if they don't, then that's another intro.

Then the second thing you do is you ask them like, which markets are these people in?

Where are they? Burlington, let's say, for example.

So somebody in Burlington.

So then I would go to your top 10 and I'd ask all of them the question of, you know, 
obviously.

I love working with you.

We've got a great relationship.

And I'm curious, do you have a realtors that you refer to outside of this market?

So like, if somebody's moving from Burlington to Kitchener, do you have somebody there 
and then ask for an introduction.

If these people trust you, what happens is they come in free, sold.

There'll be layups for you by doing that.

Let's say you got 10 of them and from the 10, you get five good introductions.

You'll probably walk away with two more good partners. Now that's not going to move.

That's just one. But this won't take you a lot of time to do.

So you end up with a couple more partners. So you go from 10 to maybe 12. Right.

And you go a little bit deeper in those relationships. So that would be the first thing.



That's the more strategy that I would start with.

And then in terms of financial advisors, do you have a financial advisor right now that you 
work with?

I mean, there are some that have tried and whatnot, but not at all worked and nurtured that 
relationship whatsoever.

Right. So kind of two schools of thought here.

One would be just double down, triple down on what's already working. That can be wise.

I mean you could build a hundred million dollar business just on one referral partner type if 
you just got really dialed into them.

And Bernadette lacks a man is a perfect example of somebody who's built like she does 
about 250 million a year.

It got to a place where she was at about, I don't know, 200 million or something.

Maybe she's 200 million. She wanted to go to 250.

And we looked at her business and was like, okay, what could we realistically double in the 
next 12 to 18 months?

So she had good realtor partners, but she was doing most of the relationship building was 
done one to one.

So the next thing would be one to many.

Is there stuff you could be doing, say at webinars with these people that would get you in 
front of more people faster?

So like joint webinars with your realtor partners doing lunch and learns to get in front of 
them.

Right. Anytime you can do one to many, you're a great presenter.

So if you can do some one to many strategies, whether it's in real life or virtual, you're going 
to get in front of more pos potential leads.

Yeah. So I'll apply two of those things.



The first would be I actually love the idea of tripling down. Like I love going deep and not 
wide.

Right.

So I actually love the idea of like tripling down on realtors because I speak the same 
language.

I know them really well. I got a bunch of them that are friends and I love that.

The second would be Yes, I know I speak quite a bit.

So I do do that relatively often, like way more often than any other mortgage brokers.

The pretty well I guarantee that.

So like I'm speaking to teams all the time because I have a whole slew of topics I could talk 
about.

So I'm doing that. But now I think that now you're right.

Now that we're going to be buying this time back, I think that I can.

I haven't initiated proactively since I started as a mortgage broker when I really wanted to 
get out there and get as many contacts as I could.

I haven't really initiated it as awesome because I've been so busy.

So now I can go out there and actually solicit to be able to come out and dump into them and
their teams and their brokerages.

So I love that idea. I think that's a great idea.

Scott, two different angles on this that you could do.

So just think of the principle one to many and then there's different paths.

So one would be I'm going to go do a lunch and learn with real estate agents to teach them 
because get in front of them and they want to work with you.

That's one.



The other is a strategy where you and the realtor partner and you're going to the clients, 
you're doing something to help them in their business, whether it's, you know, you do a 
webinar on should I sell my condo in Toronto right now.

Right. What's the condo market thing? And then talk about strategies around that.

And then they get in front of people as well because they've got. The thing is they have a 
database.

They may have people in their database that are not ready to buy from yet.

So you could, you know, target their database alongside with them as opposed to just 
getting in front of the realtors.

So there's kind of two different paths there. Again, I just think of Bernadette.

She does webinars ongoing basis. I think she does one a month, one or two a month.

And when she does, she's inviting all of her clients to these webinars and then telling them 
to invite their friends and or her pro partners, they're inviting their lead customers.

And so if you could start doing something that's client focused right around different topics, 
the realtors can invite people and then you can create deals for both of you.

So that's another one to many strategy that you could look at.

Love that. Yeah, I think that's brilliant.

Yeah. Because I think like you could get to a hundred Million and not even add a second.

Think about going after financial advisors. They are high trust referral leads.

I have found that it's going to be a rare situation where financial planners are going to send 
you five leads in a month.

That is so rare. And there's people listening going, that's me.

I'm like, yeah, but that's a unicorn. Whereas even if they have a decent sized book.

Yeah, that's the challenge with financial planners. I just don't find that they refer.

It's still worth something to pursue.



But if you leverage the existing relationships you have, try that first.

I'm not saying don't go down the other path. Maybe first, okay, who covers them on 
vacation?

Do they have like, you know, other markets where they have partners?

Like I got a buddy, everybody that goes to Toronto.

I mean, I refer them all to this guy or this team. That would be good to know.

And then outside of that lunch and learns for the realtor partners which are killed.

You slay at and then do some kind of webinar for your clients. And the realtors.

Clients love it so much. All that. I love it. I think that we have my answer here.

And it's going to be deep with realtors honestly prefer the relationship.

And here's the thing too, you met, you alluded to a second ago. And anyone listening can get 
this.

It's like financial advisors and it's going to have a hard time getting five a month.

Like I got some realtors that are killers and it's like they, they have a good month. They're 
gonna.

They send me 15 people. Right? Like, they may not all buy, but I mean, eventually they do.

So I mean, I agree.

I think realtors the front line when it comes to buying and selling, plain and simple.

I think that's a super easy answer. I think that is right in front of me. Thank you for that.

And then you mentioned, like ways to do things. So you got webinars, lunch and learns, et 
cetera.

And you know, I'm putting together another thing which is probably like a live event, which 
realtors love this.

I got a huge health contingent where I got a ton of realtors that are big into, you know, 
getting healthy and doing all that kind of stuff.



So I got a couple ideas that I could just help to build trust and kind of insulate that 
relationship.

So I love it. That's great. I'm going to go deep in that.

Yeah, there's something called the five ones.

I've read this before and it's one you basically get to a million dollars a year with just one 
client type, one irresistible offer, one platform and you just keep scaling that and there's still
so much opportunity.

It's not like there's not a million dollars, 100 million in real estate transactions in your area.

It's just you getting a bigger chunk of the ones that are there.

And I think one to many strategies are you use them, but they're not another episode I tell 
you to go back and listen to.

So Joel Olson, I don't know if you listen to that one, but he does lunch and learns where.

He basically hits up all these small markets. But he does it very strategically.

He does them at a coffee shop so it's cheaper.

He does two in a day, but he'll get in front of 300 realtors in a month.

Yeah, and I know last year he had his biggest year ever in a market that most people were 
going down.

He went to a hundred million and he just increased it by going one to many.

And so again I think that there's opportunity and you're really good at that.

So like play to your strengths, right?

Yeah. That's great Scott. Thank you for that. I agree.

That's super.

The other thing I was going to ask you is I think your answer will probably be the same 
again.



I see the more better new I think I could. There's a new filter for everything.

But it's going to be like, you know, I mean, over time.

There's a lot of talk in every business, whatever you do about, you know, niching down and 
you know, like are you going to do reverse mortgages business for sale, first time home 
buyers, you know, renewals, refinances, whatever.

And so I've looked at that and said as well, my book is like everything, right?

Like I mean I got folks that, you know, come in and it's like we got a bunch of first time home
buyers.

Of course now there's a ton of them out there.

We got a bunch of folks, very few real estate investors. But I love reverse mortgages.

I think it's actually an absolute gold mine and I think it's such a rewarding area when you 
can help the people who need the help.

I just feel like it's super nichy.

Like that one there is almost like you kind of like got a really pound in that one niche to the 
point where it's almost like you maybe need to get away from other things.

So I thought I'd ask your opinion about that in terms of the next step.

Is it should I Just focus on general overall realtor relationships and then hold the funnel out 
and let it all come in.

Or in terms of actual mortgage styles, I think there's a benefit to niching down at all.

I think if you just focused on doing one to many, you would still get to your $100 million 
goal without adding any other niches.

However, the counter argument would be you could also do both. I mean, if you have the 
capacity.

But I did a podcast with that yesterday.

He's in New Zealand, hasn't come out yet, and he used to have a telecom company.

I said, what was your biggest lesson?



And he said, my biggest lesson was that I would get distracted by doing too many things.

I said, do you mean. He said in telecom we were stretched too thin.

In New Zealand, most mortgage brokers are also financial advisors.

They also do this Kiwi saving program and they do insurance. And he's like, I've said no to 
them.

And he's, he's doing, he did 121 million last year.

He's only been the business not that long in his mind is I think I can get to 200, 250 million 
and just focus and be just really good at mortgages.

So he's going deep instead of wide.

I could make the argument, but I'd also, if you wanted to go down the path of just carve out 
a discipline and you're very disciplined amount of time that you'd put towards this other 
client type and then you have to create some content around it or you take that time to put 
it into just going one to many and just scaling it.

So the latter, as you are working through it, the answers are becoming obvious to me, right?

And it's like I got this on my desk, right? Like the word focus, right on two things right now.

Because two things right now, as you know, I have a couple companies.

I'm slowly peeling away from those and I'm dumping everything into this.

It's clear, it's like it's the same thing with your focus within the day within that business.

I think it's clear that if I could focus on the one to many strategies that are narrow to bring 
in that one goal, which is lead gen through those realtors.

I think that that is probably the answer for my next from your original question to our 
podcast, which is what's next, Nate?

I think that's next.

And then here's the thing.

Once you get a big enough client base and your client base is growing rapidly, to me, then 



the next strategy is how do I Get more out of that because they're going to build the 
database for you.

And now client referrals, repeat clients.

That's where the next natural layer but get that thing is, you know, grow the database. Peter
Math.

And he said to me many years ago, he's got thousands of clients, does hundreds of 
mortgages a year.

He said, if I started over again today, I would spend all my time and energy to get 250 clients
and then I'd spend all my time energy marketing those 250 clients.

And so really you're going to need probably more than 250.

But the point is, if you did a focus dialed in that one to many, I can't imagine you'd be 
overrun with leads because you'd be get so good at it and it would become like taking candy
from a baby that you'd be like, oh, this is just so easy for me.

And then the next strategy is now you hire somebody who works your database for you. 
Okay.

Your job is to find deals with the database.

I'm going to keep working the funnel on this side and I got somebody pulling all the deals 
out of my database for me.

And that's how you keep scaling it up. That's what I think.

Yeah. And you are a man that you practice what you preach.

If anybody saw your post that you made recently and then your talk that you did to the 
entire brokerage, it's kind of like refocusing back on in your case, the agents in brx and for 
my case, like my actual people that are already there.

Like, it's like I may have people coming up for renewals and all sorts of stuff. Or maybe I use 
own.

Well, I have a lot of folks that maybe need some help or they can switch off to something 
else rather than going out and finding a whole bunch of new mortgages.

I write focus on that database. So I see what you mean.



And you can still do those. Like say yes to those folks if they're in your.

Once they're in your database through your people. But fill the funnel with their one to 
many.

And I think two or three strategies and you gave yourself three or four months.

I think you'd be overwhelmed with leads. And you're going to come back and say, scott, I'm 
too busy.

I need. But I'm like, okay, let's figure out the next problem. Or your.

Or your underwriter is going to be like, you're burying me, Nate, I need need help.

And then that'll be your next.

Looking forward to that problem. Yep, yep. That's what I was. What I want to get to. Right.

I want to keep creating bottlenecks all over the place that we have bottlenecks to solve.

That's a good thing. That's what's.

It just moves, right? Like at the end of the day, the bottleneck doesn't go away. It just.

You solve it and then it moves. And right now your bottleneck is actually moved from inside.

So you think of your business as a factory. You've got this machine, you're installing a 
machine.

So the bottleneck is now outside the factory, which is getting in more customers. Right.

Get the lead piece of it or it's going to be very quickly anyway.

Love this makes complete sense. Some, yeah. And I guess the last.

So there we kind of talked about those two pieces here. Legion, where to still go deep.

And then wanted to talk specifically about the idea of again, you know, like maybe, you 
know, not spreading too thin, but if I can handle the capacity of it and go.

I'm all but going long if I can podcast. We talked a little bit, very briefly.



I can't remember if it was off camera or not about podcast.

And then I got like a one time annual event that I'm going to host in 2027.

I've already put it out there. My social media, that'll be like a once a year thing.

So I don't need to make that a huge commitment.

But in terms of like a podcast, like I'm really, really, really. I think it's time now.

It's been a while.

I think I've got a lot to offer and I'm just trying to figure out if that's something I want to talk
to agents in my podcast, right.

Like if I want to make it kind of agent focused and talk about what I've done and what I'm 
seeing and client journey and helping agents out.

Because I think there's value there for me and for them and for the brokerage.

Or do I want to go into something a little bit more of my other passions, right.

That people come to me for all the time, which is like, you know, health and wealth. Right.

So figuring that out.

But I thought I would talk to you a little bit about the podcast expert, a little bit about maybe
your thoughts on that.

Here's what I think.

First off, I think that the podcast could be one of your one to many strategies because it is a 
one to many.

Then the question becomes, okay, so let's say you're going to do webinars or in real life 
Podcast could be one of those things that you do.

Then you got to just decide, you're right. Who's the audience? Like a single target.

Is it going to be real estate agents? Is it going to be borrowers?

Is it going to be business owners?



And you could do a show that has nothing to do with mortgages if you want.

Like I know that Adam Walker is doing. He's killer. He's basically hometown sports.

He gets hundreds of thousands of views on his stuff, but everything is sponsored by his 
mortgage company.

And so if you wanted to create a lifestyle brand, I've seen people make this.

The problem is, is that if they don't know you're a mortgage broker, God, Nate seems like a 
great dude, but like, I don't even know what he does.

So you can't be a secret agent.

So I think if you're going to go down that path and I think that this could deserve another 
episode we could do once you give it some thought.

But you just got to think about who's my target audience going to be.

And it's really important that you create a title. The titles really matter.

Like, I love mortgage brokering. It's pretty obvious who this is for.

And if you're not in this industry, you don't need to listen to this, don't.

It's not going to be for you. And I'm cool with that. And so I think the name would be.

Once you identify that, the problem is if you make it too generic, then you don't want to be 
trying to compete with that of a CEO.

And these other shows that are like, because they're going to get better guests, they're going
to have better lighting, better everything.

And so. And you can make it niche around a client. So here's how I think of it this way.

It could be a client type and it could be the realtors, could be some client type that you really
enjoy working with.

Whether it's first time buyers. It could be a region. So the thing could be based around a 
region.

So like I know that Taylor who does a show with me, he's got one cologne, real estate 
podcast.



They actually have a sponsor that hovers some of the cost of it for them.

I think the number one podcast in the area and they get business from this and it builds a 
reputation, builds their network.

And so it's focused on our area. So you can make it also local, but then it's real estate.

Or you can make it special interesting.

But that special interest needs to be wrapped in a, hey, you know this is sponsored by 
Hummingbird Mortgages.

And then get into it. So people know. Is your day job as a mortgage broker super valuable?

All of that is mega value. Anyone who's ever think of doing a podcast would have loved that.

That's great. Thank you. So I can definitely give that some thought and then maybe we 
could.

Yeah, and you just message me too.

If you end up deciding between now and when we do, we can just message back and forth 
and then if you decided up, we can then talk about what you decided.

So, like, it doesn't have this part doesn't need recorded. We could do it asynchronously.

We send each other voice notes. You can say, here's what I'm thinking, go back and forth.

And then if you decide you want to pull the trigger on something, yeah, you can already.

We can talk about the tech setup and all that stuff later.

But really the most important thing is the audience and the title.

Spend the most time thinking about that because that is going to be the thing that is going to
help it show up for people.

And what's the strategy around it too?

We can get into a whole bunch of strategies on podcasting too.

Amazing. That's so good. I love that so much.



Awesome, man. Well, hey, I appreciate this, Nate.

Always love chatting with you and let us know how it goes with these, which one to many 
strategies you apply.

Go back and listen to the Joel Olson one because he's done a masterful job in growing in a 
challenging market and he's focused right on real estate agent and people are like, ah.

It's like, I need 10. You don't need 10 different types of referral sources.

You just need to get so good that everybody can't help but use you.

Right? Yeah, yeah. Listen to that podcast. It's brilliant. I love it so much.

That's part of the inspiration for it.

Okay. Awesome, brother.

Amazing. Thank you so much, Scott. Have a great one. We'll see you next chat.

Hey, thanks for listening and hopefully you got some inspiration from my conversation with
Nate.

The key thing, this is true in all business, not just mortgage businesses, but there's always a 
bottleneck in the business.

And the key is to find the bottleneck, focus on fixing it, and you can celebrate it, but then 
realize that the bottleneck moves.

So whenever you solve one problem or one bottleneck, I don't even like the word problem, 
then recognize that the key is to find the next one and then attack that one with full 
attention and focus.

Hey, thanks for listening.

As I always say, there's no problem in your mortgage business someone else hasn't already 
solved.

Your problem is finding the solution when you need them.

This podcast is designed to find some real solutions.



Thanks for listening and I will see you on the next episode.