I don't think it's crazy to say that the people who know how to run teams of AI agents are
going to be able to outperform everyone else in this AI age we're in.
So how do you actually run teams of AI agents? What does this mean?
What's the step by step way to actually do this and what are the tools you need to know, like
Devon AI to actually go and do this?
Well, on today's episode I brought on Ryan Carson and he clearly explains all of this for you.
He even gives you a tour of his insane setup for how he manages his AI agents.
So by the end of this episode, you're going to understand what cloud agents are, how you
can set up automations, how you can create a software factory that creates software 24 7.
And you're going to be able to understand it just really clearly because he does such a good
job at explaining all this.
So enjoy the episode, I'll see you at the end and have a creative day.
Ryan Carson back on the pod by the end of this episode, Ryan, what are people going to get
out of this?
So you're going to be able to do three things really well.
You're going to be able to run cloud agents, you're going to be able to do automations, and
you're going to be able to ship faster.
So whether you're a founder, a solopreneur, a stay at home parent, you're just going to
become an agent pro by the time we're done.
Okay.
Because I think a lot of people listening to this might have, they've played with agents, cloud
agents, but you're going to help them just get the confidence basically to be world class.
You know, I think that's what I'm trying to, that's what I've been thinking a lot about.

It's like, okay, there's a bunch of people who have played with agents, but how do we
become world class agent operators?
Yeah, essentially you are a manager of agents now.
So, so no matter what you used to do, whether it was a people manager, an ic, you are going
to become a manager of agents now.
And you need to be the best in the world.
And it doesn't matter whether you're a vc, a founder, an ic, a mom, a dad, like a college
student, you should manage agents and be the best at it.
And we're gonna show you some tips for that.
Okay, so where do we start?
Okay, so let me give some context, right? So people understand what, where is this coming
from?
So I'VE been a founder CEO for like 25 years. I'm working on my fourth company now.
My last company, Treehouse, which was acquired, we had I think up to like 110 full time
employees.
Taught a million people how to code, you know, so I've done the whole build organization
thing and manage organization thing and you learn a lot about managing people on that.
And now this startup which I'm running it, I am one employee right now.
So we've raised the seed round, we're scaling really fast.
Our revenue probably is going to 4x this month and I'm probably going to be hiring my first
employees.
We are essentially an AI divorce agent for divorce firms.
So we do the dirty topic that no one seems to want to tackle, which is family law.
So I've learned a lot about how to scale me. Right. And so I'm gonna help folks understand.
How do you manage a lot of agents? Well, how do you check the work, how do you automate
things?

How do you work from your phone?
You know, I do almost 50%, probably more of my work from my phone and it's pretty wild.
So that's where we're gonna take you.
And I will say as well, like this is gonna change every three to six months.
So we're going to share a lot with you. Get your hands dirty. Try it.
And the best way to learn is to do.
Cool.
Yeah, I'm particularly interested in the phone stuff because I actually do 0% of my stuff on
the phone.
What?
Yeah.
Okay, let's talk. So let me start by just showing you.
Well, when I'm at my desk, what is the world like?
Right.
So right now I'm in my home office.
I, I work from Connecticut and I do all my desk work here and I've got this big 52 inch Dell
monitor.
I used to have a couple monitors and I was like, screw it, I just want a huge monitor.
So let me share my screen. All right.
So what I do is I set up eight screens on my monitor and I also enjoy food and snacks as I
code.
But the key is to have eight things up at once because I have to multitask a lot of agents at
once.

I also use a paper system to keep track of some of my to dos, which is a little bit weird.
I use the UG Monk system which is kind of fun. And I've got a killer Razer mouse.
I was getting a lot of wrist pain actually, so I decided to go vertical mouse on that.
I also have a button which actually is connected to Whisper Flow.
So I almost use Whisper Flow for all of my stuff. So I've got Slack in the top left.
That's where I get notified notifications and things about what my agents are doing or what
is happening.
That's the primary thing I use Slack for. And then what I do is I lay out various other
screens.
So I've got one password always set up.
It's very important to keep your keys safe, secure, and separated from the agent, right?
So I've got all my prod right keys in one password. I do not give my agents prod right keys.
So production writing is dangerous and your agents will do something bad.
And so you need to set up a system where they ask you for the key when they need to write
to prod, and then you go into one password, you copy and paste it into the session, and
you're both very clear about what you're doing.
So that's one tip. Keep your keys secure. And then I use Devin. So Devin is created by
Cognition.
I think it's one of the best software factories in the industry. It's not cheap, but it's good.
The things I'm talking about today are not Devin specific, but they do work very well in
Devin.
And one of the keys is cloud agents.
Then I usually have two screens set up where I am testing my app. It's just a lot of testing.
And then of course, I've got X in the top left and top right.
And then on the right I've got Codex, which we'll talk a bit more how I do most of my work

in cloud in Devon.
And a lot of that work, like we talked about, 50% is probably on my phone.
And then whenever I do desktop or whenever I'm doing things locally, I'll do it in Codex.
Usually that's in the bottom right. So that's kind of my.
When I'm at my desk, my setup and what I do when I'm here.
But the truth is I do a lot of work from this, my iPhone, this is my beautiful wife.
It's just I get a lot of stuff done.
I'll be in the shower and I'm thinking, okay, I need to check on that pr, or maybe I want to
land that pr, right?
Grab it, talk to Devin, which is just done in a browser on my mobile.
And I get a lot of stuff done that way. So that's my setup.
So I keep hearing this, that Devin is almost the most powerful coding agent. And can you
just.
For folks who haven't heard of Devin, or who haven't played with it. Why is that?
What is going on?
So about two years ago, maybe two and a half years ago, Devin came out and they pitched it
as this idea of like, it's a software engineer, right?
And honestly, it didn't work very well, right? The models were just not good enough.
And no matter how good the harness was, the models just weren't there.
And then Fast forward to 2026. The models are definitely good enough.
And when you have a good harness that is cloud based, it's really good.
So think of it as you've got your choices, right?
So if you're using agents to build things, you're probably using codecs from OpenAI or using
Claude code from Anthropic, or you're using one of the indie, I call them the indie agent

harnesses.
You've got amp, you've got Cursor, which is not independent anymore, but sort of owned by
Elon.
And then you've got Cognition, which makes Devin. You've got Factory as another one as
well.
So you've got these choices, right? And so I thought, okay, I want to scale myself
horizontally.
Like, I want to be able to run as many agents as I possibly can.
And I don't want to be working on my laptop and trying to figure out which code is colliding
which work tree.
Am I on a lot of technical stuff that really, it keeps you from shipping.
I know there's a lot of different folks that listen to the show.
You might have solopreneurs who are newer to coding.
They don't have computer science degrees, they're not super technical, but they're building
things.
Then you may have software engineers who are multiplying themselves 10 to 100x.
They have deep understanding of software and architecture.
And then you have founders who are coding but are abstracting themselves.
And you have VCs who are coding. But everybody's going to learn a couple skills.
And what's interesting is. I'll sort of zoom out for a second.
I think we all thought that engineering and being technical was going away, but actually
what's happening is the more you become a better agent manager, actually the more
technical you become.
And I think a good analogy is that you are basically an engineering manager, right?
And so to be a good manager of many agents, you do need to become technical, right?

There's this reality of you have to understand what postgres is.
You have to understand the production environment versus a dev environment.
You have to understand migrations, like, but the truth is you'll learn all that by using agents.
Right.
And so I am way more technical than I have ever been in my whole life.
And so I think the idea has become more and more technical, therefore. Okay, so let's back
up.
Why, Devin, what is it? It's a really good agent.
They have their cloud environment really nailed down.
So that's the first takeaway I want to talk about today is cloud.
Okay, um, how can you run more agents, get more done?
And the answer is you work in the cloud, not on your local machine.
Now, for the folks that aren't super technical, sort of explain, what does that mean?
So when you're writing code or you're building things, you are editing code, right.
That code has to be edited and then hosted somewhere.
Right.
And.
And usually what we used to do is we used to all work on our Macs, and that's called local
development.
And you have to set up your whole local development environment.
You have to have your database, you have to have your authentication, you have to have
everything local.
You have to have your dev server set up. And then what happens if you want to do two
things at once?

You have to either use git work trees, which is pretty technical and hard to understand, or
you have to literally make another copy of your code in another directory.
So then to work on two things at once, you have to have two copies of your code, which is.
And then what about three or four? What if you want to do five or ten things? It just doesn't
work.
So what Devin does, and I think a lot of good independent agent harnesses like Cursor is
doing this.
Now, I think Codex is starting to do this. Okay.
Is they create what's called a VM or a virtual machine in the cloud, and it's basically a little
server, and it is your development environment, and you click a button and it spins up and
all of a sudden you can code in there.
And the beautiful thing is if you can create infinite numbers of these things.
So I often have at least five cloud agents working at once, often 10.
And there's no risk that the code is going to collide.
So what it does is it takes away all of the mental overhead of trying to coordinate these
things.
Like, I want to work on this part of the code, but what if it overlaps this part of the code?
Or what if I want to do that? Have I synchronized and pulled the latest? I don't know.
And when I work in the cloud, I literally just open up my browser and I click new session
and a new VM spins up and I never ever have to think about it.
So I think if you are working locally, I honestly think you are a caveman.
Like I think you are holding yourself back and you are shipping 10x less than you could be.
And it is not smart.
No matter if you think the cool people work locally and all the smart eng, it's not true
anymore.

You work in the cloud.
Yeah, I mean there are a lot of people like on X who are sort of like local maxis who look at
people who spin up virtual machines and cloud agents as sort of like amateurish.
What do you say to people like that?
They are not doing real work. Here's the deal, right?
So as soon as we hit PMF with untangle and we started acquiring real customers and having
to ship real fixes, real features, like I had to probably 50x my output.
Right.
And you just can't do it if you're working locally.
So I think it's nice to work locally and sometimes you have to if you're doing heavy front end
stuff.
So say you're shipping a brand new feature with a lot of ui, like a lot of new ui, right?
Then yes, of course you're probably going to spin up a local agent and you're going to do
some light front end, probably wireframing.
But as quickly as you can, you want to move that into the cloud and then let a cloud agent
take over.
So I think this is happening to a lot of people.
I think a lot of the traditional knowledge of how to work is out of date. That's where we're
at.
Okay, so if you do start using cloud agents and you do 50x outputs, in some ways that is a
little stressful because you have so much stuff going on and now all of a sudden you have to
manage more.
So how do you structure a system so you don't go absolutely crazy?
So it's interesting. I think first of all you have to shift your expectation of what your work is.
And what your work is now is making high stakes decisions almost all day.
So in the past we all had the luxury of making probably at most maybe two to three high

stakes decisions per day.
You'd have an important meeting with your key team or with a customer and you'd make a
couple important decisions and you would communicate those decisions and then they
would get done over two weeks.
I think you have to sort of mentally pace yourself to say probably by lunch you're Gonna
have made 10 to 20 high stakes decisions.
And so you have to learn how to do that. Which is your question, how do you do that?
And I think there's a couple simple things, right?
So when I'm working with my agents, I actually have to organize my threads and I pin the
ones that are the most important work we're getting done today, right.
Because there's a lot of quick bug fixes or small things you're shipping and you kind of learn
to separate into two buckets.
What are the big, big important things I'm getting done today? Pin those.
And then the other thing is just let them rip and get back to them when you can.
And then set yourself this kind of almost timer, right?
Where you're like, okay, I'm going to go crazy if I just click through my threads like this all
day.
You just get completely wiped out. Right?
And so it's almost this discipline of saying I'm actually, you know that the phrasing
smoothest, slowest, smooth and smooth is fast.
Yeah, I think there's a little bit of that where you realize I can only check on my agents and
make high stake decisions probably every 25 minutes.
And so what you might do is settle into this cadence where you check on your high stakes
threads like every 25 minutes just so you can like literally mentally rest.
And then the other side of that is just understand that this is the world we live in and it is
kind of exhausting and that is kind of where we're at.
And in order to survive in this new world, you're going to work a lot more, not a lot less.

And on that note, I'll share my screen because there is essentially a world we live in now
where you're going to ship probably.
So this is my prs. And we're looking, these are days.
And you can see the average here is sort of this, 22 to 25 PRs a day and sometimes 40 a day.
Most of these are being merged, right. A couple are being closed.
And what's funny is what happened this day? I went hiking with my son.
Which day is that? Kenti or cursor?
Oh, it's the, was the 18th. 18Th.
And so we went and climbed Mount Washington and I literally couldn't access my phone,
but notice immediately the morning of.
Right.
You know, while he was sleeping, I, I shipped.
What is that?
Eight PRs. So this is kind of the world we live in now. And we could talk about that.
But let's zoom out to the lessons here. You've got to go Cloud.
You have to understand in order to compete in this new world, you're going to be working
half the time from your phone and it is tiring, but it's like going to the gym.
Okay.
I have this new muscle like I never had to exercise before and it turns out this weird back
muscle, it turns out like that's the most important muscle in the world.
And if you don't do it, you're not going to win.
So the way to do that is in set some sort of cadence for yourself.
Pin your most important threads, write it down.

So this, you know what I'm going to sort of flash up on the screen. Here is my written to do
list.
Every day, you know, I use this hilarious analog system to like to remind myself what are
the most important things we're gonna ship today?
Because there's gonna be 10 probably PRs that we ship that are fire, you know, putting out
fires and you can get distracted and exhausted.
So cloud and then exercise this new weird back muscle which is making high stakes
decisions all day, including on your phone.
Right. We were basically saying is like you're gonna. Because of the velocity of.
You knowledge work.
Knowledge work. And you'll have stuff going on and you will need to be there to say yes.
No, actually this giving feedback in real time. And your point is?
Why wait until you're in front of your Mac to give feedback?
It makes no sense.
If you're trying to hit product market fit and if you're trying to forex revenue in a month or
whatever it is.
Why Gotta be available.
Gotta be available.
And I think it's easy to think of these things as humans, right?
Like you have a team now that is infinitely scalable.
They're gonna do work very fast and they're gonna be blocked by you making important
decisions.
Right.
And you can't delegate the decisions yet.
I think we're still very much even if you use Fable, like this is a trick is use a Fable thread as

kind of the manager and then ask it to spin up children.
And I do this a lot.
So I'll spin up a Fable thread and I'll say, okay, we want to accomplish these five things.
Spin up five child Devin sessions. Don't use Fable. I use Fusion for that, which is a cheaper
model.
It's cool.
It's like their new model where they've got Fable is kind of the parent and they've got a
sidekick.
Point is you're not going to.
It's not viable to run Fable or any super premium model all the time, but have a sort of a
parent, very intelligent model run children.
You can do these things. But in the end, you're going to have to pay attention.
And it's just like if you ran a big team and you were out to lunch on your boat all the time.
You got to get in the office and the office is your phone and so get it done.
So, Greg, this is my homework for you.
Next time we talk, I want you to be doing more than 50% of your work on your phone.
Yeah. I mean, that's why you're here, right? Like, you're.
A lot of people ask me like, how do you choose guests and why do you explore topics,
certain topics, over other topics?
And it's really, it's for everyone.
I love arming people with the information, the tactics, the systems, but I'm also everyone.
I'm a part of that. Right?
A part of that is I know that you're doing this and I want to understand why you're doing it.
And I also want to understand.

One of the takeaways I have is your system for dealing with tasks is not too dissimilar to a
very organized person.
Pre AI like the idea of like pinning, you know, your most important things, like it's on one
hand it's pretty obvious, but on the other hand if no one tells you, like, hey, you know the
way to do this so you stay sane is via that system.
You're you. It's overwhelming.
Yeah, it is funny. It's like back to the basics, right?
Yeah.
It's just in an agent age and it turns out like being a very, very good engineering manager is
probably one of the most valuable skills you can teach yourself.
And you know, I have the honor of sort of mentoring my nephew right now and he's coming
to me and asking me how do I win?
You know, he's just come out of college soon, how do I win in this new world?
Right?
And you know, I basically teaching him what we're talking about in the show, it's like, okay,
your job is going to be managing as many agents as you possibly can.
Get good at that, right? Which means, you know, you need to start to adopt these, these
behaviors.
Right?
Work in the cloud, prioritize what you're doing, learn how to make high stakes decisions
quickly, get technical.
It is a farce that engineering is going away.
If anybody tells you engineers are going away or becoming less technical, they're just not
doing the work.
And it's like being a carpenter. Say you had robot carpenters around.
If you are a real carpenter, you'd be a much better manager of those robot Carpenters

because you understand how to make the cut, where to put the nail.
And so it's important so to back up.
And if you're listening to the show, the thing I want you to walk away is cloud agents.
Get your reps in, figure out how that works, try it a couple times, do it from your phone and
get comfortable looking at your small phone interface and learning how to work that way.
So I think that's thing one. It's very important.
The second thing I want to dive into is automations.
Okay, so say you're working in the cloud, well done.
You're starting to separate yourself from the crowd. The second thing is automations.
You need to sort of think about things that you would have normally had a meeting with
once a week with your team where you check on something or daily you check on
something and build an automation.
Well, what does that mean?
So the first thing to do is go back to your agent, start a session and say, okay, I want you to
automate this task every X amount of days.
And so one of them that I do, it's really simple, is that I want to automate the test of signing
up for untangle, creating a case, onboarding a client, having that client go through discovery,
basically our user experience.
But I want that to be automated in a browser.
This is not rocket science, this is basic user testing.
But it turns out that good agents can do this.
The big unlock is set up your agents so that they can make themselves better instead of you
trying to build these systems.
And so I set that up and then in Devon, it's really cool, it's called a playbook.
But the idea is it's sort of like here's how to do this thing. It's different than a skill.

It's more of a list of things to do, how to do them correctly.
And I have a, it's called end to end signup test and that runs three times a week because it is
expensive.
It's probably 60 bucks in tokens because it's doing a lot of browser testing.
And I think that's sort of a side point I want to explain here is it's now vital that your agent
can properly browser test and it really should work out of the box.
Right?
This is part of the reason I use Devin is because they've been using cloud agents that can do
browser testing for two years now.
It's so good, it records a video, it annotates the video, it then looks at its own video and it
fixes, fixes bugs that it sees Right.
So you have this agentic loop that is specifically around browser testing that then is
automated three times a week.
Right. And then what do you do with that? And then you need to trigger a triage based off of
that.
So say that it's like, oh wow, the third test failed in this automation.
I'm going to spin up a Devin session or an agent session to then fix it.
And then you have to figure out where do you know that that failed?
How do you know, did the agent just kind of silently fail and then fix itself?
What about the PR that was created?
So you have to start thinking about how do you see these things when they happen? Right.
As the manager of all these agents, how do you know what's failing and what's not?
And that's again, we should talk to your agent and say, okay, we've got this end to end test.
I understand it runs Monday, Wednesday, Friday. I understand triggers a child triage
session.

If anything goes wrong, how do I know about it?
And then your agent might say, well, why don't I post in Slack?
And you could say, well, okay, how are you going to do that? Well, we need to connect the
mcp.
How am I going to know? Look in that channel.
There's just all this machinery that you need to automate and figure out and work through
to build that system of automation so that you are doing less of the work.
So this specific automation, is this more of a bug testing QA automation or is it more of a UX
QA perspective?
This one is more about finding bugs that have been introduced to Prod that somehow we
missed in our user tests in our automated test suite.
So that one in particular is like, hey, we just can't have signups go down and not know about
it.
But sometimes your automated test suite just, it doesn't catch everything.
But a good old fashioned clicking through the site in a browser catches that.
It is not really about the ux. I think that there's, there's no.
One thing I will say is there's no substitute and we probably won't have a substitute for a
while of you using your own app.
There just isn't a good substitute right now.
So right now every so often I literally go through our entire app myself and then I obviously
quickly spin up sessions to fix bugs.
I find. But we're just so far from agents still.
The smartest models in the world still lack this sense of obvious intelligence where you're
like, why did you think that was okay?
Well yeah, I think the bigger question is if there's a division of labor between human beings
and agents, what are the tasks that you as the human being are going to be doing?

What are the sets of tasks and what are the sets of tasks that the agents are going to be
doing that you're okay with them doing and keeping you in the loop?
So my question for you around automations is beyond qa, what are some other automations
that a founder could be implementing?
So let me pull up my list for you.
So the kind of automations that I have are clearly qa bug fix, fine.
The other is what I call my production watchdog.
So we've got a lot of real law firms using untangle.
We've got a lot of real clients going through discovery and we've got.
With just a huge amount of activity.
And honestly, I can't keep track of it mentally by just looking through logs.
And so what I do is every day at 9am I have what's called a production watchdog
automation, which what it does is it goes through all of the events in the database that
happen for our paid customers and it summarizes that in a JSON file and then that JSON file
is in our admin.
And then I know every morning I go in and I click on the production watchdog and I read
through the summary of what the customers did and it's so valuable.
So it's sort of like you can imagine your chief of staff showing up and saying, all right, Greg,
here's the important stuff that happened yesterday for our customers, right?
And I'm going to roll it up and explain the things that went well and a couple bugs that we
saw.
So that's an automation, essentially what happened yesterday that was important.
So that one, that's a big one.
Yeah, that's honestly a big one.
Like, it's like one of those ones that sounds small but is a big one.
Because you're going, you think you know what's going on, but you don't.

Really, you don't. I mean, and it's, it's so shocking to me.
Like, yeah, the amount of times I'm like, oh, and this is the other trick, man.
So use a Production Watchdog automation, pick your most important customers and then
make sure that in that report, it's like the customer did X.
Here's a link to view that, right?
And so I actually have a production instance where you click it and you actually see what
the customer was doing.
And then I'll be like, whoa, that's weird.
Like, and we have this amazing Ability that, you know, over, you know, millions of years of
evolution and very quickly picking up things that are off.
And so there's a couple times I'm like, that's weird.
And I click into it and it turns out, oh, the user experience that the agent built on, that wasn't
quite what I thought it was.
And so, yeah, production watchdog automation that links out to real UI is just, man, that's a
game changer.
So that's a big automation. This is a really important, a self improvement loop. How does
this work?
Okay, everyone's talking about self improvement, right?
So in Untangle we have an agent called Grace and she is essentially a paralegal and she has a
lot of chats with both our customers who are attorneys, our customers who are paralegals,
and our customers and their customers who are clients that are getting divorced.
So how do I actually grade those chats and then improve them without managing the fine
details?
So what I do is every day I have an automation that looks at these chats and then grades
them on a rubric.
And again, just talk to your agent about this.

You pick the most important part of your app that you want to self improve and say, here's
how you agent judge whether this thing that happens is good or bad.
And then every day I want this automation to kick off, look at those things for us.
They're conversations that Grace is having. And then I want you to grade them.
And then if anything is bad or below this score, I want you to kick off a child session and fix
it.
And it is shocking to me the number of small fine UX details that have been picked up by this
loop and have been fixed.
And honestly, there are things that I just wouldn't bother doing.
Either I didn't know about them or I'd be like, meh, it's a paper cut.
Are we really going to ship a fix to that?
But because the agent already identified it, spun up a PR and it's ready to ship, I just go ship
it.
And we probably ship, I would say probably three of these a day.
Wow. Yeah, that's huge. And you know, a lot of the backlash on loops is just that it's
expensive.
How have you. With Devin specifically, has it been like absurdly expensive?
Like what are we talking?
No. Well, so here's the thing.
So last month I spent probably 20 grand in tokens, which is just too much. Like it's not
viable.
I think all of us are in a place where we're getting to the spot where it's realizing okay, for
real engineering work per employee, you're looking at probably five grand a month.
That's probably where we're going to shake out here.
And anything more than that, you really need to figure out model routing.

And so thankfully Cognition knows this and everyone's figuring this out.
Whether it's cursor cognition, I would say factory amp.
All of the independent agent labs understand our customers have a limit.
They are not going to pay infinite token budgets. And then you have the. This is me ranting a
bit.
But it's like you have cloud code and Codex who are just severely, they're funding tokens
and making it seem cheap.
But this is not going to work long term.
And so what I do is basically I have learned how to use the right model for the right task.
And so these reinforcement loops, they use what's called swe 1.7.
It's a fine tuned model that Cognition has specifically built for coding.
It's super cheap compared to opus. 4.8 GPT, 5.6.
And so a lot of these loops happen with this cheaper, finely tuned model and we're just
going to see more of that.
So you're talking, I don't know, you know, actually I could probably, I could probably look
and dig it out, but you're probably talking like 5 bucks a session on that.
Okay, that's not bad.
I mean, and if you're not willing to pay 15 bucks a day to improve one of the core, you know,
feature sets of your, like, what are you doing?
Like, either it's not a real company or you don't care.
Yeah, totally.
Spend the money like, and, and then, you know, figure out the system to reduce your token
costs.
I will say this is why I don't understand why anybody would build their engineering on a
Frontier lab stack.

Like, I'm just going to call it out.
If your whole engineering motion is happening inside of Claude Code or inside of Codex,
what are you doing?
Because they are not incentivized to make it reasonable for you long term.
They're going to lock you into their models to their process.
Whereas if you use an independent agent lab, like an amp, like a Devon, like a factory, like
sort of a cursor.
But they're kind of weird.
Now those systems are going to optimize for affordable engineering long term.
And I don't think you want to be locked in to Anthropic or OpenAI solely.
I mean, to be clear, you can still use their models within some of these products, right?
So you're not abandoning ship?
No, it's actually so it's yes and right.
So the beautiful thing is if you pay an independent agent lab like a factory, like a cursor, like
a cognition, like an amp, et cetera, they're incentivized to figure out how do I give you the
best results for the lowest price.
So they'll say okay, we're going to use GPT 56 SOL on extra high for this type of task.
And then we're going to route, you know, to a Swe 1.7, you know, and then we're gonna
have it check with a fable like they're gonna figure out that hard stuff.
And the other thing I will say is if you're trying to build a software factory for yourself, stop.
Like you know, the reason why you see ramp launch inspect which is their custom in house
agent is because they got to a size where they had to build their software factory in house.
And if you get to a certain size you will do that.
But now if you're a one person shop and you're just building something, it's just you, you
can probably get away with this $200 a month, you know, angle on a pick your frontier lab.

But as soon as you graduate into okay, we're building a real product, we have product
market fit, we're going to start hiring people.
You got to build a software factory and at that point you want to be on an independent
agent lab.
Like otherwise you're going to have to build it yourself, which is stupid or you're going to
pay and be locked into you know, a walled garden and you can't do that.
The analogy I use for it is, you know, working with an independent lab is sort of like a, like
working with like a mortgage broker or travel agent.
Like they're going to make a lot of calls to make sure to get you the best price and stuff like
that.
Um, that's great.
Yeah, to me I use both. You know, I, I'm in cloud code but I'm also, I use cursor personally.
Although Devin I'm interested in.
I might, if people are interested I might just do like a whole breakdown on Devin if people, if
people want to, want to do that.
Devin's so good now. You know, I just, it's so good, it's amazing.
But I will say I do use codecs, right.
The Mac app is so beautiful and they are subsidizing the tokens so much that if you want an
agent on your machine just to do really cool helpful stuff, open browser tabs and create
Google Docs and check your email and do all this information work and basically get it for
free.
I mean you're paying 200 bucks and you get almost infinite tokens. Like awesome.
But don't build your company software factory on that. Like it.
I just think it's bonkers to do that.
We've covered a lot today. Is there anything else you wanted to cover?
I feel like I'm just vomiting, you know, all, all the stuff in my head.

Well, no, it's important that like this is what I wanted.
I wanted you just to vomit everywhere because like it's sort of like advice that you, you
would give to your, to your nephew, I think or 22 year old, you know, a 22 year old fresh out
of college.
It's like what are the minds I need to know in terms of managing agents?
So is there anything else that people need to know? Cloud agents Automations.
Yeah, cloud automations. Like those are the two that I want people to walk away from.
I guess the third is really you will be using a software factory and what I mean is the agents
are going to be writing 100% of your code, reviewing 100% of your code, shipping 100% of
your code.
That's where we're going. And so the more you can get there, the better.
Thing one, thing two, I think thing three is it is important to build a credible reputation for
yourself.
And I will say the work I put in over, you know, the last 20 years on X, like it really pays
dividends.
And what I mean by that is if you, if you share what you're learning publicly and you
generally give like write very helpful articles on X and obviously the algo really does reward
articles still.
So you should be writing articles on X, you should absolutely be on X, no matter how you
feel about Elon Musk, because sharing your knowledge really does build up credibility
which will pay dividends.
And I don't mean just like getting paid to post, I mean the network and the relationships.
I mean the reason why I'm on the show is because we built a relationship over X.
And so I would encourage people take the time to share what you're learning.
It doesn't have to be super polished, but get out there and be useful to people and it will
open up doors.
So you know more than you think. Just get out there and share it and you'll reap the
rewards.

Not immediately, but eventually.
I mean even if you don't know, you can just say I don't know. And that's your strategy, right?
And that's interesting too.
Amen. And if you don't know, then ask an agent to help you.
Yeah, I mean, my original co host of this show was Sahil Bloom.
Sahil Bloom worked in private equity and during COVID he just started writing about topics
he was interested in.
Like he would be like just finance topics or you know, a particular individual who was
interesting.
And it, like, it read as like Wikipedia articles, but really focused on Twitter specifically like
optimized for Twitter.
And that was his thing.
And he wasn't saying I know everything, he was just saying like, I'm learning this thing.
Here's the thing I'm learning.
He grew his audience, over a million Twitter followers, wrote a New York Times best selling
book, started companies on top of it, raised a fund on top of it.
So anything is possible for sure on X. Yep.
Just, just get out there and do, do, do, do and learn.
You know, there, there's no try, there's only do as Yoda says. Right.
So totally Ryan Carson. I feel smarter and that was my goal.
And speaking of X, you're a wonderful follow.
I'll include links where you can follow Ryan across the Internet, including X.
He's a must follow, so please do that. Thank you for coming on, sharing your generous
thoughts.

Incredible setup. And is there anything you want to leave people with?
No. Thanks, Greg. Thanks for having me.
The show, I appreciate you putting out the constant knowledge and sharing.
It really makes the Internet a better place. So happy to be here and thanks for having me.
All right, I'll see you next time. Take care.

