The average sales rep is spending up to two hours a day on administrative work.
I experienced this myself firsthand.
2024 I had arguably the busiest year of my career.
Both in and out of work.
I was flying every single week to different locations.
I would have six to seven meetings a day.
Next thing I know I'm just saving all my grunt work for my plane ride to my customer visit
or over the weekend.
I'll just tackle it then.
And this includes things like account research, note taking, creating slide decks, updating
slide decks, updating CRMs, keeping tabs on all my accounts.
And whether it's actually creating things like notes or emails or calendar invites, or it's
things like catching up on accounts, if you're balancing several different accounts, getting all
of that context, jumping from tool to tool, it's a real pain in the ass.
And I want to walk you through these five use cases today on how they have not only saved
me two hours of work every single day, but also it is doing as good or better work than I was
already doing myself.
But it takes a little bit of know how to to actually get these things to get consistent outputs
that are great.
The beauty is for all of these use cases all you need is the $20 a month plan.
On ChatGPT you can use Google Gemini.
It has similar functionality as well as Claude.
Really go to your platform of choice.

I have built so many workflows in ChatGPT and really refined them that I find the writing
and the outputs are really great.
So I haven't switched yet though I have seen similar results on different platforms.
The biggest thing if you are not familiar in ChatGPT it's called custom GPTs or projects.
In Gemini it's called Gems.
I believe Claude has their version of it as well.
Everything you're seeing Here are custom GPTs that are specifically designed to execute on
one specific function really really well.
So the first one that we're going to get into and what I recommend you do is not just come in
here and make a simple prompt of.
Like hey, summarize this call.
I actually have a custom GPT that is designed to take a full length transcript.
This could be a 60 minute, 90 minute, 120 minute call.
8 It will break it down in terms of everything my organization needs specifically, not just
generic like Bant or Medic.
I've actually gone in here and using a custom prompt really designed exactly what I want
from a transcript and also told it hey, if you don't have this information, please identify gaps
and let me know that you don't feel confident in this piece of information so that I can know
to get it next time.
So just as an example, I started this one.
It's simply asking me for a transcript.
I'm going to upload this transcript here.
And just say anonymize this company info as this is a video demonstration make up
company and people's names.
It's going to analyze this transcript and it is going to break every single thing down that I
just go in and copy to Salesforce, copy to HubSpot, copy to Gmail, whatever it may be.

Right.
So it's made up this information here about the different client but it's got everything.
If you are as one example of many like every single Salesforce or HubSpot from a company
that I've worked at always requires next steps.
It's got it here.
If you're a command of the message you have current state negative consequences, future
state positive business outcomes Medic Bant I've codified it to also create a detailed follow
up email.
And not just a follow up email but I've given it several templates of my own and said this is
exactly what I want my follow up emails to look like.
And it's also based on the transcript created a follow up calendar invite.
This is one example of many.
You can also if you would like make each of these a separate GPT where you could have A
dedicated email 1 A dedicated calendar invite.
But if you are not doing this guys again you may have to tweak a few things here or there
but this alone is something that I would put off till 5pm I close my laptop, I'm like you know
what, I need to go run, I need to go exercise.
I'll come back to this at 7 or 7:30 after I have some dinner and this is done in a matter of 10
to 20 seconds like you just saw here.
And if you are not doing this at a baseline this immediately gets you an hour back.
Comment below if I can elaborate further on the note taking use case.
But that is I would say just from the BS admin stuff that is so annoying to do.
If you are not already using ChatGPT or an AI tool to do that I would do that immediately.
The next one I want to get into and this has been insanely valuable for me, you'll actually see
that we work with a lot of different companies.
Again I've made up the names here of these different companies but but what I am doing

now is I am actually I've created A project.
Right.
So this again has very specific instructions.
I can actually show you these here.
If you want to pause the video, feel free.
But it basically says, hey, you are an expert account executive with 15 years of experience.
Here's your task.
You got to do all these things.
Here's the context of what I want you to do.
So I basically told this project, hey, you need to take in all the information from an account I
give you and you need to be the expert resource on everything that is happening in that
account.
So.
So if I want, as one example, I can go into a current account that I'm working and say, hey, I
haven't talked to them in a month.
Please create a paragraph summary of everything we've talked about so far.
And this is a super simple way.
Instead of jumping to Salesforce, instead of jumping into Gong and rewatching a call, instead
of jumping into your email inbox and rereading the emails, that this is an incredible way.
Again, the one challenge here is that you actually have to upload your emails, upload your
transcripts.
Please check with your company.
In some cases that may not be allowed, especially depending on the company that you're
working with or supporting.
But this has been unbelievable in the sense that like right now, it's over winter break, I've

stepped away from my computer for almost two weeks.
I'm going to come back and I don't have to spend a day just getting back up to speed on all
my accounts.
I can do this in a matter of minutes.
And on that note, guys, you know I give tons of free value here and if ultimately using
ChatGPT is the best tool tool for you, it's only 20 bucks a month and I highly recommend
that.
Again, it's very painful to upload all of the transcripts, all of the emails.
I just wanted to give you guys a heads up.
In February or March, we are going to launch Rhythm AI.
It is the first AI sales copilot that is actually built by sales reps and I've actually got a
preview here to show you.
So by the way, if you want to be notified when we go live, even if you just want a free trial,
put your email here.
I'll give you a shout directly myself when we do ultimately go live.
But, but some of the things I just walked through I have not seen in any of the AI co pilots.
So we're going to integrate directly with your calendar, with your email and then as an
example, after you have a meeting with your client Morgan Stanley, you can come in Here
and have it generate a meeting summary, which is also a predefined workflow right away.
Or as one example of many, maybe you want to sync back on Salesforce.
You know, hey, catch me up on everything that's going on with Salesforce right now.
The beauty of this is all of your information is going to be securely aggregated and stored
here.
So you can almost have these custom GPTs for every single account that you have and also
very detailed and defined actions that give you what you want.
I've seen so many of these call recording tools and all respect to them, but they give you AI
summaries and they can create follow up emails, but they don't even allow you to define

what kind of note style you want or what kind of emails you want.
So anyway, my point being guys, there's a link in the description and in the comments
below.
If you want to be notified when we do go live with that, just throw in your email here, I'll
give you a shout.
We're gonna let everyone start with a free trial so that again will be coming around
February or March and getting back to the different use cases here.
The third one, and I would argue this is one of the most underrated, but also the hardest to
pull off, is account research.
Specifically, one of the things that I didn't really appreciate because when ChatGPT was like
first on the block, it was rather new, it was connected to the Internet.
All of the research that it did was still pretty bland and generic.
It wasn't clear that it was actually scraping the up to date Internet.
But now in 2020 and beyond, ChatGPT effectively is scanning thousands, if not hundreds of
thousands of websites when you have it, do a web search.
So when you are actually asking this thing and prompting it correctly to do a deep dive
account research, the results I've gotten are absolutely insane.
Even if you're new to ChatGPT, all you need to do is just start a new chat.
You're going to want to come in here and enable the web research specifically.
But if you're not familiar, a free tool that I recommend is PromptCowboy AI and and this
will allow you to create a super detailed and lengthy post that gets you incredible results
when you're doing a web search.
Again, this is totally free and all you would need is the 20amonth ChatGPT plan.
But let's just do a very basic example.
If you have not really used ChatGPT for account research and your potential prospect is
Verizon, you can say, hey, you.
Are an expert researcher for sales teams with 20 plus years of enterprise sales experience.

I need you or let's actually back up.
I sell Oracle.
Again, a very simple example databases and I need you to learn everything about Verizon's
tech stack, business outlook and otherwise that would make Oracle a great fit for Verizon.
Please generate a detailed report and identify key stakeholders tying their current business
pains with their publicly stated goals from news.
Reports, 10ks etc so prompt Cowboy, I mean this is already a halfway decent prompt.
It's not that great in the grand scheme of things, but Prompt Cowboy is going to take this
and now make this a super detailed prompt.
I just want to show you very briefly how powerful this is.
Again, in the scope of two minutes I've created an extremely detailed prompt.
I'm going to get some really good data on Verizon and then the key thing as well, as you'll
see when we jump back to ChatGPT, is not only is this first shot of research on Oracle going
to get some pretty good results, but I can ask it follow up questions, I can continue to probe
it further and and you'll be amazed at what it can get with a very simple search right here.
So I went ahead and hit answer now just for the sake of this example.
But sometimes it'll deep dive for a couple minutes if you really want it to go deep, which
again I encourage if you have the time to do.
It's amazing, it can just run in the background, but here you can see it's already getting some
very detailed information about what it's using, the types of technology it has.
And what I'm going to do is not just take this at face value but again I can go, hey, please
explain to me how you know they're using Apache or Kafka or Snowflake, who's using it?
How much are they using it?
Please find the linkedins of everyone in Dallas, Texas that is using Snowflake that works at
Verizon, right?
Many examples here.

You can also probe it further.
Hey, this was great.
You know about the business outlook and strategic priorities.
Please cite specifically from the latest 2025 10K that you can find XYZ problem or XYZ
statement, right?
You have the C suite, you have all these things broken down.
But my point being again guys, this is something that you know, if you're creating an
account, you're preparing for a qbr, this is something that takes hours per account, let alone
how many accounts you have to balance if you're actually going to show up and do this
right.
So if you have not been using ChatGPT for account research, it is extremely, extremely
underrated.
The fourth use case I have here is slideshows.
I originally said emails.
I'm going to change that up because you saw that in a previous one.
A lot of people.
I'm not saying you actually have ChatGPT create slideshows.
The image creation is not quite there yet.
However, those of you that have worked at a company for a long time, you generally
speaking have pretty standard templates for things like a discovery call presentation, maybe
a demo call, maybe a scoping call, maybe if you do extensive trials.
I know I commonly run trials on the order of one to three months.
You scope that out.
There's a very standard document.
Don't feed it any private information your company would not be comfortable with.

However, if you say, hey, I need you to create a slide and here's the overall format of my
typical slide deck.
Slide 1 is this.
Slide 2 is this.
Slide 3 is this.
Slide 4 is this.
Then you feed it a bunch of transcripts and tell it to go crazy.
It will get you 80 to 85% of the way there.
And I want to show you again a very simple example with an executive summary creator
I've created here.
I certainly use it much more extensively.
And when I'm deeply involved with an.
Account, I'll feed it several emails, several transcripts.
But I'm going to take this simple scoping call transcript from earlier and just.
Say, hey, please create a one page.
Executive.
Briefing for the CTO of this company so they understand the significance of the problem we
are solving.
And again, guys, under the hood, I have already codified this thing to create an executive
summary based on several templates that have been effective for me.
I'm just going to say, hey, please.
Anonymize this information and make up the company and people's names.
So it's going to read through this and as you can see, it's saying Acme Financial Systems, but
it's actually using the data from the transcript and it's taking something that I can very
easily just copy paste here.

I'm not, I'm not saying blindly, you.
Know, use it word for word, but now I'm 85% of the way home.
I've got to fix the formatting, the spacing, but I can come in here and now very, very quickly
have a really dialed in executive summary slideshow, whatever it may be, the last one, and
I've made several videos on the channel by the way.
So if you want to see more, you can obviously subscribe, follow along and find these
different videos.
But a lot of people again do not really value how.
Well when prompted correctly, Prompt Cowboy can be an insane role play or interview
prep or coach for active reps or reps trying to break in an interview.
As you might imagine, I have a first round interview simulator I've already created.
I use Prompt Cowboy, by the way to create the detailed instructions and this includes
anything you know, hey, provide the company.
These are the common questions that you might get asked.
But not only can you provide it further information so you can say, hey, here's my resume,
I'm interviewing for Oracle, here's my work experience, I'll start a simple example.
But the beauty of these is actually using this voice mode you can have an actual
conversation and practice your answers out loud in a game time situation.
And also I would add like if you have a friend in the industry that's helping you interview or
helping you prep for a call, obviously their insight is very valuable.
But I know a lot of people, especially if you're breaking in, don't have an expert to really give
you meaningful advice in terms of how to prep or how to say things.
So using this actually not only gets you saying things out loud, but it actually gives you
expert feedback.
For the sake of this example, I'll.
Just say I'm interviewing for an SDR role at Oracle in the Austin office.

Please start.
And as this thing starts, hey, I am a new college grad, I am really short on time so I can't
provide you a ton of context, but I studied engineering.
I have one engineering internship and I would like to start this interview right now.
I'm very short on time and so the sound is not going to pick up on that recording, but it will
literally give you a back and forth.
And this is something again, it's a public video on my channel.
If you want to go find that, follow along.
These are incredible ways.
Whether it's an interview, whether it's a discovery call, I will feed it all of the information
about a company that I'm preparing for a call for and I can have a real simulated and expert
type of back and forth including things like, you know, simulating a tech stack so I can
genuinely say, hey, I think the customer is using these tools, they're using these products,
whatever it may be and it will give me very hyper realistic answers back.
So all that to say, guys, again that you can absolutely do that with ChatGPT, with Gemini,
with Claude, we have spent six months building Rhythm AI really building towards a tool
that is actually meant for sales reps.
I see so many copilots right now, so many people saying, oh, look at these cool things for
sales reps. And all they do is create generic summaries, generic emails.
They don't monitor accounts or they're tracking all your account information.
But by the time it actually creates something meaningful, it's just a bunch of high level
generic summaries that aren't actually the way that you want it to work.
That's why we created rhythm.
And again guys, we're going live in the February to March timeframe.
So if you want to be notified when we go live, get a free trial that's exclusively available to
people who sign up for the waitlist.
You can enter your email here if you guys have any questions.

I monitor this myself, so if I can help you with your ChatGPT workflows and anything else,
let me know.
And the final thing I'd say, guys, is if you are brand new to all of this and you want to
accelerate going live with ChatGPT, with AI, we have 30 plus custom GPTs, many of which
you saw today that are ready out of the box@highlevels.com and our AI Sales Accelerator.
So if that's something you're interested in, you just want to use ChatGPT.
Hopefully this video gets you going.
And again, if you really want to accelerate and have 30 GPTs ready to go today, highly
recommend checking out the AI Sales Accelerator.
But with that being said guys, good luck in the new year getting all your AI workflows going.
If you have any questions, let me know.
We'll see you in the next video.
Thanks.

