Today on the pod, I've got my friend Dan McDonald from Ownwell and we're talking about
this amazing tool that he's built for Canadian mortgage brokers to help them stay in touch
with their database, create conversations and really just create deals.
This tool has been available or a tool like this has been available in the US for a long time.
Homebot and some other tools.
And I love this because it's instead of just sending an email every month or sending
something to your clients trying to stay in touch that's like recipes or just be so they're
aware you exist, you're actually sending them a report with their home equity as well as
their buying power.
And he continues to make the tool more and more powerful.
I think it's a fantastic way for people to engage with their databases.
So I think you're going to enjoy this conversation.
Before I jump into that though.
Hey, I'm Scott Beckford.
This is the I Love Mortgage Brokering podcast and our goal is to go and help you in your
mortgage business to scale it.
And occasionally we bring people in that have tools that I think are absolutely game
changing, like this one with OwnWell.
Check it out and check out my conversation with Dan.
And if you want, just check on the show notes and you'll be able to get a link to go check to
sign up for this tool for something that you think you can use.
I know that the brokers have been using it so far have been having fantastic results and the
open rates on these things are crazy because again, it's about that individual's own home
and their own buying power.

Check it out.
Hey, Dan, welcome to the show.
Thanks for having me, Scott.
It's great to be here.
So, hey, tell me a little bit about yourself and how you got into the mortgage biz.
And you're not a mortgage broker, but you are a technologist that's building some cool tech
for mortgage brokers, which you're going to talk about.
And we're going to talk about some of the lessons that you've learned from what you guys
have built.
But tell me a little about that first.
Yeah, you bet.
It's definitely been a roundabout journey to get here.
I actually started off drawing comic books.
That was my first career.
What really get further away from tech.
I mean it's, it's, it's nerdy.
So I guess it's related in that way.
But yeah, so I, I grew up idolizing, you know, these, these like illustrators of X Men.
And all these guys mostly live down in la And I was growing up in Prince Edward island, so,
you know, that cold spit of sand off the east coast and dreamed of sun and, you know, this
amazing lifestyle that these guys had.
And actually when I was 17, I got a chance to go down there and apprentice alongside my
idol, who was the original artist that drew Wolverine.
And it was a great time.

You know, it made a huge impression on me coming from little old Charlottetown.
But I realized that that industry was in structural decline.
So the owner of the studio, the guy I was working with, he had made his money a while ago,
but think about it, right?
Like around the mid-2000s, things were really starting to go digital.
Video games were huge.
You just didn't see that many, like young kids going to the comic book shop anymore.
And so a lot of these older guys in the studio were like, hey, we really love this profession,
but it kind of sucks that we'll never own a home.
I remember hearing that and I was like, what?
I thought I was going to be like rich drawing comic books.
So you're telling me I'm going to be working for minimum wage that doesn't quite work.
So decided I'd go to business school so that I could at least figure out how to bridge
creativity and business so that I could have the creative freedom I wanted but also have a
lucrative career.
So that took me to UVic where I did my BCom.
Graduated at a terrible time, like 2010.
No one was hiring.
Ended up getting into marketing and then into T shirt design.
Ended up actually getting a chance to draw some T shirts for Richard Branson, of all people.
Was back in like 2013.
He needed a promotional apparel line for this, this film that he was producing and ended up
getting to, to meet him and do this line for him.
But it was, it was not an easy path doing the whole starving artist thing.

And so around that time I started to see in Vancouver all these tech companies popping up.
And my friend at the time, actually who I was living with, my roommate, Alex Conconi, who I
think, you know, he was starting lend us and I thought, mortgage technology.
What?
What is that?
I didn't even know what a mortgage was.
But he explained to me that the status quo and, you know, his vision for doing something
much better for the industry, I got pretty excited about it.
I ended up quitting my marketing job and taking a software development boot camp
because I didn't feel like I had any hard skills to offer in tech.
And I guess about a year and a half later, Alex was growing his team and ended up joining
Lendesk as a junior developer, I found software development didn't come naturally to me.
It was kind of like banging my head against the wall.
So I found myself more often solving problems between the sales team and the engineering
team, helping translate these, these business or customer pain points into, you know,
technical tech requirements that the engineering field, hey, turns out that's a job.
It's called product management.
So I decided that we needed more of that in the business to, to, to make sure that we were
building what our customers wanted.
So I ended up becoming our head of product at Lendesk and, you know, ended up being
there through till 2022 when I finally got the itch to do my own thing and decided to build
something again in this, this industry that, you know, after eight years, I finally decided I
knew something about it.
So that's, that's how I got here.
Right.
Okay, that's cool.
I had no idea, dude.

I didn't know that any of this stuff.
So what have you drawn for any comics that were published?
Yeah, yeah, I did.
You know, this, this wouldn't ring a bell for most people.
It's not a, not a famous one like X Men or Spider man, but the, the comic book was called
Hunter Killer and it was published by Image Comics.
Image Comics is the same publisher that does, like, Spawn is their big one.
Yeah.
Witchblade, the Darkness, lots of, lots of cool stuff.
Okay.
Do you have, do you have any T shirts that you design still that I can find pictures of?
You got to send me.
This isn't even the podcast, but I want to see what.
So some of this, the design piece.
I didn't.
This is awesome, man.
Super cool.
Okay, this is a funny one.
I, I promise not to take us off track too far here, but I was drawing T shirts in like 2010.
I don't remember that time, but it was like Ed Hardy and everything had like skulls and, you
know, koi fish on it.
And ended up working for a local company that sold these really expensive high end
hoodies with those types of graphics on it to, you know, people that would buy them.

It turns out one of our biggest markets was like, gangsters, frankly.
So I remember opening up the paper one day and seeing the Bacon brothers walking out of
the courtroom wearing something I had drawn.
And I thought, okay, might be time for.
Oh, man.
Well, you can't.
Like, that's.
That's insane.
Yeah, that's.
That's actually hilarious.
Okay, so product management with Bendesk and then a couple in 2022 started your own
thing.
So talk to me through you got.
You created this cool tool called OwnWell.
And if anybody listens to my podcast, I talk about it all the time, always saying, hey, you
guys got to check this out.
Because it's.
It is a technology that's existed in the US for some time.
And then when I first saw it, I was like, oh, man, this has to exist in Canada.
It didn't.
And the CEO of homebot, the guy that I had met, he had said that didn't an indication or
interest in coming to Canada.
So I was pretty excited when I heard you guys are doing it.

So maybe.
But anybody who hasn't heard about it, break that down for me.
Yeah, for sure.
We're a homeowner engagement platform, and what we do is we build really engaging, I
guess, educational content, frankly, for homeowners so that they can understand what's
going on with their home equity, what's going on with their mortgage, their home price, et
cetera, et cetera.
Because, you know, it might be.
Might be a surprise for this crowd who's into the, you know, the real estate and mortgage
market day in and day out.
But your average homeowner doesn't know what's going on with their home or mortgage at
all.
And oftentimes they're making terrible decisions without consulting you.
So I set out to build something to solve that problem.
But rather than go direct to the consumer, who's probably not going to be willing to pay for
it, I recognize this other problem with mortgage brokers and Realtors, where they have a
hard time staying top of mind after that initial transaction.
So OwnWell allows mortgage brokers or Realtors to upload their client database.
And then OwnWell automatically enrolls those clients in a personalized homeownership
report that goes each month.
And each month it's different because the real estate market's changing, so their home price
is fluctuating.
Rates are obviously changing every day, so there's new opportunities all the time.
And so each month they get the most personalized insights on their.
Their property and their mortgage.
And in doing so, they, you know, come back to the mortgage broker that's been sending it to
them each month.

Right?
Yeah.
It creates conversations, though.
I mean, the way I've described it, you.
You sell, you know, is.
It's basically a way for you to homeowner to monitor their home equity and buying power
on a monthly basis and create conversations.
And that's what homebot was able to do.
And the open rate, engagement rates are off, off the Charts because it's about something
they care about, their own situation, their own home, their own equity.
And, and so I think it's absolutely brilliant.
So we're going to talk about kind of five insights you've got from this, from, from, you know,
this pro, this company that you guys have spun up and, and already you've sent.
You've got a bunch of brokers that are using it and having some success.
So walk me through, like.
Yeah, what's the first kind of insight that you've got from this?
Yeah, I think the first one is just the extent to which most mortgage brokers are sending
truly, like, useless content to their, their clients after closing.
Of course, there's exceptions.
A number of the people that are doing it right have been on this show.
But when I've had conversations with so many mortgage brokers, I've learned that, you
know, they're just doing, if they're doing anything, it's things like a mortgage anniversary, a
giveaway once in a while, a happy birthday card, and they're getting forgotten.
So I, you know, I was just surprised at, frankly, how low the bar was in Canada because I'm
always looking at the US and seeing what people are doing down there.

And so I think that's the first insight is just how big an opportunity this is for mortgage
brokers to offer something that's more relevant and truly valuable to their clients.
Yeah.
And so what kind of, what are you guys seeing for open rates on.
On these campaigns?
You guys are sending out a report.
I call it a report.
It's an email, but it's really a report that.
And the reports are becoming more sophisticated over time that allow people.
You guys are continually adding more tech into this, but walk me through that.
Correct.
Yeah.
And so the email goes out monthly.
It includes a link to the report, which is this dynamic thing that actually clients can now edit
and adjust as well.
It's becoming more and more of an app.
But the open rate on those emails, on average across the platform has been around 65%.
But some of our top performers are seeing rates in excess of 75 or 80%, which is pretty
crazy.
And then the click rates on those reports is in the 55% range.
And again, some top performers see click rates in those reports of 65% or more.
Yeah.
One of the things that I think that drives even more engagement is explaining it to your

client.
So they know, like, if otherwise it's just another email.
If they understand what it is and the value of it, then it's like, oh, I actually, I want to.
And I think I would suspect if you were actually to peel back the onion on that, you discover
that the people that are having the most engagement are the ones that have had a
discussion saying, hey, keep an eye out for this report.
Here's what it does.
Here's why you care.
And they go, oh, and the other people are kind of stumbling into it, but if you don't, you kind
of have.
There's a little bit of an education component because it's new.
It didn't exist before, so we didn't know this was possible.
Now we do.
It's like, oh, now that I know it exists, I want it.
Right.
Yeah, you're totally right.
And so we, we've got like a, like a getting started and my Keys to Success guide that we send
people whenever they sign up for OwnWell.
And the first thing we mentioned in there is the thing that separates the top performers
from, you know, the, you know, the ones that aren't the top is before they enroll their clients
in this report, they send that email out to their database saying, hey, you know, I've invested
in this amazing free tool for you.
It's going to do xyz.
You're going to receive it every month.
If you have questions about it, ask.

And then, of course, when people receive that email, they anticipate that it's coming.
They click on it and they read it.
That boosts open rates like crazy.
And then the other thing that we've seen our most successful customers do is also mention
it in a monthly basis in their newsletter or whatever regular communication they have
going up.
Remind them, hey, keep an eye out for your report this month.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah, that's a good, that's a good tip there.
A little.
If you guys are listening to it, if you're using it.
So then, yeah, I'm sure you guys have already had success results from brokers.
I know that.
I've talked.
We got a bunch of brokers from our brokers that are using it and they're generating not
client conversations, generating referred mortgage clients from it.
And like, it's.
Yeah, because it's so specific to the mortgage industry.
Right.
Like, I think I told you this story how I got a new truck that I didn't know I wanted.
And, and it was because they sent me an email saying, hey, because I have a truck and I have
a, a loan on it.

And so they said, hey, you can get it out of 2021.
You get a 2025 and your payment's going to change by 80 bucks.
So I was like, all right, I want a new truck.
Like, I didn't want a new truck.
And next thing you know, it was the easiest sale the salesman ever had to make.
I went in there, I said, here's what I want.
Make sure you match.
It's got to be at, you know, this level, you know, all this stuff.
And I had it within three days.
And like, there was not.
It was not even a sale because there's.
And there's nothing the salesman could have said to me that would have worked, except
that's all the difference in payment is.
And I can now have a truck with warranty and not one off warranty.
And so I literally.
That was the.
Because it was specific to my truck, my everything.
And so then I really believe this type of marketing is going to be the future.
Well, it's a really good insight that you just gave.
I think the core thing that we've learned about that is it's really hard to anticipate when
your client is going to want to make a change or need to make a change.
And I think a lot of the marketing in this industry historically has been around, okay, I see
rates moving, or I see economic forecasts changing this way.

I think my client ought to do xyz.
We're saying it's really tough to do that well because your clients lives are changing all the
time, and it's tough to know what they're going to need or want at any one moment.
So instead, send them this really empowering, engaging information because then they're
going to recognize an opportunity, think about it, and reach out.
And you're informing them about things that they have no idea about today.
Like, I think the number one cause of a new mortgage deal coming from OwnWell that we've
heard from our clients is most Canadian homeowners just have no idea how much home
equity they have.
And when they see that number, it's really surprising.
A lot of the time, some of them don't believe it, and they're like, hey, you know, I don't
believe my home is worth this much.
You know, can.
Can you.
Can you double check this?
And in that scenario, the one I just mentioned, actually, once they got a CMA with their
realtor, turned out the home was actually worth more than we said it was worth.
And.
And they ended up trading up into a bigger home in a different neighborhood.
So it's.
But again, it's because it's specific to their home.
Like, there's how.
How do you create that conversation, without that.
That unique data point and that report, I don't know how you do it.

Like, yeah, yeah.
And so the whole thing creates conversations is what I think is that.
That's the power of it.
So what are some of the mistakes you see that brokers make when they think about their,
you know, marketing to their database or clients, whether they're using your tool or
something else?
Yeah, I think there's a couple.
The first one is just general, and then the second one is.
Is with ownwell, the first general thing that I see people doing wrong is maybe conflating
what matters to them with what matters to their clients.
And I get it.
Like, you know, mortgage brokers living in the mortgage world day in and day out.
So things like, you know, changes in the bond market or changes in rates, things like that,
that.
That's really important.
All they hear is Charlie Brown's teacher.
They don't care.
Like, for the most part.
Well, a homeowner that, like, what does that, like, how, you know, what's in it for me?
You know?
Yeah, people are lazy and selfish.
They want to know immediately, like, okay, so what, what can I do with this?
And so at the end of the day, the things that we've seen, people care about, the end client
care about is, can I save money, can I make money?

Or can my life be better than it is right now because I can, you know, move into a bigger,
better home.
That's what people care about at the end of the day.
So I think the.
The first thing I think people get wrong is they.
They.
They think their clients care about one thing, but they actually care about this.
This other stuff.
Then the thing I see people get wrong with OwnWell is our top performers.
One of the other common things with them is, to your point, about the true value of this,
which is engagement in conversations.
They get that.
They don't.
They don't hem and ha about getting started.
They don't stress out about every data point being perfect.
They just go, okay, right, I'm going to enroll my clients in this.
And if I made a mistake in my data or, you know, if something has changed in my client's
mortgage since I got it for them, and they call me on it.
Well, I'm the expert.
I know that I can turn any inbound question or concern or conversation into a valuable
touch point.
So they just get going.
The mistake that we see people make sometimes is they go, okay, I'm sending out this
information.

I have to review every single data point in every single house.
They'll never do it.
And guess what?
They don't do it.
And then three months go by and they haven't done anything and they're not getting any
value.
So that's the mistake I see some people make.
Yeah, no, that makes sense.
So what are the things you find?
Separate top performers, like people that are actually doing good database marketing from
people that, that aren't.
Yeah, I think the first one is they, they, they understand what matters to their client.
They ask that like, you know, what's in it for me?
Or so what question?
And then the other thing is I guess having that, that mindset of okay, I am, you know, I'm the
expert.
And any, any question that comes up is something that is going to allow me to demonstrate
my value.
Yeah, exactly.
It's about creating conversations that turn into.
And so one of the things too, it's like the home, the home price.
You guys are using pretty, some pretty interesting technology to estimate home prices, but
sometimes it isn't, it's not like it could be low, could be high.
But again, the whole point is, is like this is a conversation, right?

Yeah, that's exactly right.
That home price, it, you know, it's a double edged sword, right?
Like it, you know, if it's, it's such an important piece of information for homeowners, like I
forget, I forget, what's the book?
Maybe it's how to win friends and influence people.
But you know, it's like what's the most important word in the English language to most
people?
It's their name.
What's the most important number for a Canadian homeowner?
It's, it's what's their home price worth?
And they all have, and they all.
Think their house is better than their neighbors.
Right.
It's just like everybody thinks they're better than average drivers, which can't be possible
mathematically.
Right.
So yeah, where I'm going with this is that you could spend your entire life trying to come up
with like the perfect algorithm for, you know, the most objectively accurate home price
possible.
Guess what?
It wouldn't matter because it's, it's not just the reality of what the home is worth, it's the
perceived value that the client has about what their home is worth.
And so why we think that's important is the, the AVMs, the estimates, that's just one part of
it.
But we also allow the client to adjust the value themselves.

We also encourage the client, when they're clicking on that section in the report to request a
consultation from a realtor partner.
So it's all about generating engagement around that home price, generating those inbound
questions, not necessarily optimizing for that home price to be 100% objectively accurate.
Yeah, well, and, yeah, exactly.
But it creates a conversation.
And yeah, I mean, the other thing that people use this for.
So my buddy Wally down in the U.S. he's, he's using Homebot, obviously he's got.
But they use it to generate referrals for their partners.
So they have other wealth partners.
So like most mortgage brokers, they're only thinking about, and understandably, I guess
they're only thinking about what's, what's in it for me.
Just like the clients only think about what's in it for me.
But if you can step back and look a little bit more further, you can actually turn this thing
into way bigger opportunity.
And so the way that Wally has done this is that he generates, he, he generates business for
his accountants, financial planners, CPAs, all the attorneys.
And what happens is that he does such a good job of generating referrals for them that they
end up giving him referrals, end up giving him their databases.
And so now he's end up adopting databases of other people's because they're not as good at
generating these conversations and leads as he is.
And so that kind of leads me into my next thing.
So you guys have a cool.
You.
You've recently rolled out a new feature, so, so depending when you listen to this, that
allows people to adopt databases, maybe walk me through what that is and can talk about

how people.
And there is a limit to how many of these you're doing at the moment.
So why don't you walk me through that?
Yeah, thanks for that.
Yeah.
This new feature is called Adopt My Mortgage.
And the concept is that all these referral partners of yours that have trusted client
relationships with homeowners, these people have mortgages, and while they're not your
clients yet, you can adopt their mortgage, so to speak, and give them these insights about
ways that they might be able to save or make money through their home and mortgage.
And in doing so, obviously it's going to create more referral business over time.
So how that all came about is I guess last fall we were starting to get some traction with our,
our first use case for OwnWell, which was generating repeat business from one's existing
client database.
Bunch of our customers, mortgage brokers, some of their clients are realtors, lawyers, etc.
And so they started asking our customers, hey, this report is really awesome.
I'm not doing much for my database right now.
Can I somehow, can I sign up for this and send this out to my database?
And so we said, well okay, we won't let them sign up for OwnWell directly.
Instead we'll allow our customers, the mortgage brokers to give them access.
So how it works right now is you as a, as a mortgage broker known.
Well, if you're on our annual plan, you basically get up to 10 referral partner spots in your
ownwell and you can then generate a unique link for each of your referral partners and they
can then get a custom Ownwell landing page through which their clients can opt into your
ownwell report which will then be co branded with the referral partner and yourself.
So not only is the referral partner getting to get in front of their clients each month with the

same kind of report, but you're in there too for those home finance related sections of the
report.
And so that was the first, the first, I guess, MVP for this feature.
And what's coming next is we're going to have a separate login portal specifically for those
referral partners.
They can upload databases, you know, they can.
So they can do it on mass as well.
So that.
Because as a broker you can upload, you can do it en masse.
Upload.
Yeah.
And then go and Saint now bacon.
And these are co branded.
Yeah, I mean again that's, that's what.
Why all.
I think I've said this before on my shows but like Wally has 4,000 past clients but markets to
30,000 on a monthly basis.
And so he's got 26,000 homeowners that are constantly seen from him with incredibly high
engagement rates.
And so it becomes a big piece of his marketing is just, that's where all his business comes
from.
So he generates so much business from that that he then gives to his partners, that his
partners give back to him.
He and it.
You don't, you don't need to do any external marketing at all.

It's all done.
It's all your marketing is done through your, your basically how to leverage your database.
So yeah, it's awesome.
Okay, what like how can people get signed up?
We'll put links in the show notes to this.
If you click on it, you can go get it.
But where can they, if they want to get one of these spots?
What's that look like?
Yeah, yeah, thanks.
So we're limiting access to this feature to 250 brokers across the country to start with.
We want them to have a head start and Being able to offer something really valuable and
exclusive to the referral partner.
So we're capping it at 250.
We've got just under 100 of these spots left.
And so if you want to get access, go to ownwell CA and when you sign up, sign up with the
code ILMB100 at checkout and we'll take, take the referral.
I'm sorry, take the sign up fee, the setup fee, I mean, off your plan.
So you can save 100 bucks and you'll get, you'll get one of those remaining 100 spots, right?
Yeah, because there's a setup fee.
But if you're, yeah, you guys are basically, if you listen to this episode or this podcast.
Thank you.
But then go check that out.

If there's something, if you have a database, you're going to want to get on this.
Like I would go, as I said before, if this was, if I was brokering today, this is the, what I would
do to generate my business is I would get, you know, Peter Mathony, one of my idols.
The very first podcast I did.
He was.
And if you ever listen that episode, Dan, I was so nervous and like squeaky voice.
And I reached out to him like, hey, would you do a podcast with me?
The guy does like 4 or 500 mortgages a year.
And I remember asking one time I was having lunch with him, like, if you could start over
again, what's your advice to somebody starting over?
And he said, I would go do everything in my power to get 250 clients and then I'd spend all
my time energy marketing those 250 clients.
Well, now I think the number's bigger today, but that principle is the same.
The difference is you get your 250 clients, but if those 250 clients, you can then turn into
700 plus referrals to your partners.
And that's how you go from 250 clients to 500 clients.
And so I'm convinced that there is a young, a new Peter Math Knee or you know, Penny
Matheny, you know, out there that's going to grab this idea and in a few years from like, holy
crap, I can't believe what you've done with this whole thing.
And so I'm excited about seeing that, how that works.
Absolutely.
Okay, well, hey Dan, thanks again for chat with me, man.
And if you know, I'd love to see, send me some, I want to send me some of those images.
I want to check it out.
I'm interested in seeing some of the artwork that you have and to just put.

But I will say I've checked with the Omwell dashboards.
They do look good.
Like, they have a.
They have a good visual.
You know, you obviously have a design eye, so.
Or somebody does on your team, because it looks good.
The entire report and stuff.
Well, thanks, Scott.
No, we.
I mean, well, we do have a UX designer who's excellent, but I definitely care a lot about the
way things look, especially from the client's perspective.
Right.
Because I think that if we can build something that your clients love and.
And want to check each month, then ultimately it's, you know, it's going to be something
that you love, too.
It's a win for you, too.
Yeah.
Awesome.
Okay, thanks, Dan.
Thanks so much, Scott.
Take care.
Hey, thanks again for listening, and hopefully you've got some ideas or certainly inspired
about how you can do a better job of connecting with your database.

And as I always say, there's no problem in your mortgage business that someone else hasn't
already solved.
Your problem is who's got the answer?
The goal is that this podcast is going to provide some of those answers.
Thanks again for listening, and I will see you on the next show.

