Have a leads problem or just a business model problem?
The reality is that the old model that I've been taught when I first got in the mortgage
business and that many brokers still use is not actually working anymore.
Let me explain it to you this way.
A good friend of mine, Peter Ma, he done tons of mortgages when he first got in the
business.
I had said to him, if you were me and you were starting out, what would you do to grow
your business?
He said, I would spend all my time and energy to get 250 clients and then I'd spend all my
time and energy marketing to those clients.
Now, you could argue that used to work.
When you get a big enough client base, you can actually get quite a bit of business from your
clients.
But here's what's been happening if you've been in the business.
I was speaking to my Canadian mortgage brokers, especially here, is that it is very difficult
to get those clients to back on renewal because the lenders are very competitive.
Back when I started was way easier.
We used to win on rate all the time.
Can't do that anymore.
And so building up this database of clients that people would and this was the strategy is
they get a good chunk of clients and they just move them every three to five years.
Again, this is Canadian brokers who have people in short term mortgages but typically
every three to five years they could move a good chunk of those clients and it got easier and
easier.

That is not working anymore.
I'm going to explain to you in this episode what you need to do instead.
And this is working like a hot dam for some of my brokers that are doing it.
I'm going to give you a quick intro first.
I'm Scott Beckford.
This is the out of Mortgage Brokering podcast.
I am the founder of this as well as Bricks Mortgage.
Been in the business for 18 years coaching for almost 10 coaching top producing mortgage
brokers and loan officers.
And just like my podcast says, I love the mortgage business and I love learning from people.
And what I like to do is look under the hood of really smart people and see what things can
be replicated.
And what I'm going to share with you today, you absolutely need to replicate because it is
freaking killer.
Okay, before I jump into that though, I want to give a shout out to one of our sponsors.
OwnWell is a company that is like home.
If you've heard of Homebot in the US there's other tools.
Allows home buyers to monitor the home equity and buying power on a monthly basis.
This thing is a game changer.
When I saw this as a tool in the US Called homebot, I had talked to the CEO.
I'm like, dude, when is this coming to Canada?
He's like, I don't know if it ever is.
Doesn't look like it is.

And so OwnWell is a program that can do that.
You can check onewell, ca Scott, check that out.
And let's jump into this episode.
Okay, I'm going to set the frame for this by talking about the music business first before I get
into the strategy and the tactics.
So in the music business in the 90s and even up to the 2000s, the way artists made money is
they would sell CDs.
And when they sold CDs, 50 to 60% of their revenue came from CDs.
But then something happened.
Things changed.
Just like in the mortgage business, guess what?
That revenue from CDs and from physical dropped off a cliff.
And they do have streaming.
So you could be like, Scott, they get money from streaming, but streaming revenue is way
less than they say that.
Like one CD sales equivalent of two to 3,000 streams, and there's just not as much money.
The top artists, we're talking like Taylor Swift and these big ones are monsters.
They only earn about 23% on the high end from streaming.
And a lot of other artists are earning 5 to 10%.
Prior to the 90s, it was 50 to 60% of the revenue came from CDs.
So the market changed.
And you could be like, oh, dang, it sucks to be a musician.
What am I going to do?

Or you can adjust.
Musicians have adjusted by having live shows.
Obviously, you probably, if you've gone any live shows, the ticket prices have gone up.
Merchandise, they do brand deals where they partner with other brands.
If you look at Rihanna and Fenty, I think it's called them, she only sold some like 240 million.
I looked into this recently.
240 Million in record sales, which is worth 1.4 billion now.
It's because she owns part of something.
She's built up her personal brand and build something.
So all that aside, all right, so what is the strategy?
And I believe that's the same thing that's happened in the mortgage business.
It used to be get a good chunk of clients, a good database, and you could just market them
and you could move those clients and you could rely on that.
It does not work.
Like, it is extremely competitive.
And I see people trying all kinds of strategies.
And the problem is they have not adjusted.
The business model has not Adjusted for the current reality.
But I have seen people that have done it.
And so I'll tell you what you need to do is you need to stop thinking about your database as
you can just get clients for yourself.
That's the number one shift you need to make.

If you don't do that, what's going to happen is you're like, oh, my database.
I'm going to try to get these clients, I'm going to spend all this time renewals.
You're not going to get any deals from it.
And then you get frustrated.
So that's the one thing don't think of.
Your database is just for you and the two, you need to be prospecting and you need to be
growing your database.
Now, most of you, if you're like Scott, that's exhausting.
You know how long it took me to get my first 500 clients?
I don't want to be prospecting all the time.
I agree with you.
I wouldn't want to do that either.
So here's what I would tell you to do.
Use your existing clients to get more clients.
I know it sounds really Scottish.
Here's the thing, most people make a couple tactical mistakes and this is why it doesn't
work.
So I've talked with my friend Wally Librarian, who's got a fantastic business out of Texas
and he has mastered this down to a science.
It's incredible what he's done with his business.
So what he does and what I recommend that you do and what we've been coaching our
agents to do is you got to think of each client that you get.
You can turn into three to four referrals for your wealth partners.
And by wealth partners, I mean your financial planners, your accountants, your CPAs.

When they get a mortgage with you, guess what?
They need other things.
Like, we are so short sighted.
We're just like, I got a mortgage.
Reality is that that is just one problem that you're solving that they need solved.
They need other problem solved.
We completely disregard that because we're only thinking about ourselves instead of
thinking about if I can help my referral partners build their businesses, they'll help me build
my business.
If you do the right steps, that's really, really important.
You've got to actually think about you get these clients and does it work?
Okay, so we've started a client concierge service for our brokers at Bricks and we've been
making calls for them.
So we've been using this tool because the tool is amazing.
What it does is it's this Email that the client gets on a monthly basis.
Home equity, their buying power, gives them options, and it's all about them.
It's not some, you know, newsletter with a contest.
It's not a newsletter with a recipe.
Nobody cares about that stuff.
They really don't.
But my home equity.
So the open rates on these emails are from 60 to 75%.
Open rates because people care about their own home equity.

It's my stuff, right?
And so what we've been doing is we call people, we get them onboarded with this tool, and
at the end of it, we have a conversation.
We say, hey, look, you know what we've got you set up on this.
I just got a couple questions I want to ask you about.
First, we just put you in a lot of debt.
You got.
You've got a mortgage.
Now we want to make sure that you've taken care of with your other wealth partners.
Can I ask you some questions?
And you start asking them about their cpa.
You ask them about their financial planner.
And what ends up happening is a lot of these people don't have anybody, or if they have
something, they're not that good.
And then you're like, oh, my gosh, we just put you in $500,000 of debt.
You got somebody who's a seven out of 10.
We got to get you somebody that's better.
And what happens is we now have a referral for your financial planner.
So I've got my son and my daughter's boyfriend.
They're pretty young.
They've been doing these calls for us.
These are young.

I've been teaching the mortgage business, and they had generated a ton of client referrals as
well as mortgage referrals just by having these conversations.
Mortgage referrals, but they're secondary.
So then, okay, you get these referrals.
So one of our agents, we did, we got 18 referrals in a week for financial planners, insurance
people.
So now they've got leads that they can give out to key partners.
Here's the mistake that brokers make, especially Canadians.
I love you Canadians, but we are way too polite.
We give out referrals and we assume people are going to remember to refer us back.
And they don't.
They don't refer us back because they're busy.
They forget, just like you.
You probably get referrals and you forget because you're up to your eyeballs.
And we never have a business conversation with that referral partner.
And then we wonder why, man, I sent all this business, and this is what people say.
To me, Scott, I sent business financial planner.
You get anything back?
I'm like, did you have a business conversation?
Well, no, I just assumed.
That's why you don't assume you've got to have a business conversation.
Because the reality is not everybody will refer you back.
And the ones that won't, there's this whole book we talk about, there's givers and takers

and there's people that give and take equally.
And the best relationships are if you give and take equally.
Here's how it works.
You get these referrals, you identify the first conversation with that.
So step one, stop thinking of your database as clients.
For you.
Think of your database.
If you got 400 clients, you could probably conservatively generate 1200 referrals from that
or your other partners, because there's other things they need.
So now you have 1200 referrals that you can hand out to people, but you're going to have to
have before you start handing out leads.
You got to do a couple of things.
One, you got to identify what they want.
So if you're talking to a financial planner and they're like, I only want Scott.
I want people that have $500,000 in investable assets.
Well, it does you no good to send them first time buyers because they're gonna be like, I
don't want these people.
So that's the first thing you gotta conversation would look like this.
So I'm gonna do a role play with myself.
Hey, Scott, I'll call Wayne.
That's my middle name.
So, Wayne.
Hey, Wayne, listen, I gotta ask some questions about your financial planning business
because I've got a lot of referrals that I could give you, but I wanna make sure that I can get

you the good ones.
Does that sound fair?
Who's gonna say no to that?
Nobody.
Right?
So then I say, okay, Wayne, what is your ideal client?
What are you looking for?
They're gonna explain to me.
His ideal client is.
It's fantastic.
Awesome.
Hey, I got another question for you.
Who's your number one referral source?
Who sent you the most business last year?
Wayne's going to reply, oh, you know what?
It was Sally, she sent me three clients.
Keep in mind, most financial planners do not get lots of referrals from one person.
They get them.
So it's not going to be that high of a number at most cases.
So I got maybe it's five.
Whatever.
Awesome.

Hey, one other question.
What does it make per transaction?
Just want to know what kind of impact this is on your business.
Again, most business people will tell you, oh, it's $5,000 or whatever.
So you're telling me that sally sent you three files or three people, 15,000.
That's awesome.
And if they ask why you're asking is because you say, look, I want to be your number one
referral partner, and I want to send you way more business than Sally sent you last year.
Does that sound okay?
They're going to be like, sure, awesome.
Okay, why do I want to have this conversation?
I want to know, A, what the value of a client is to them.
B, I want to know who their number one is so that I can crush them.
And then when I go and I come and I ask for referrals in their database and intros, they're
going to have no choice to give them to me, Right?
So you can see how the power of this.
So then now I got this information, I start giving referrals.
So that's the next step.
You got to have that business conversation.
And then the other thing you need to say in this conversation, hey, look, Wayne, it looks like
I can send you some referrals on this, but here's the thing.
I want to make sure this reciprocal.
So if I start sending you referrals, are you going to commit to the same as me sending

business back and forth again?
Most people are like, yes, I would love to do that.
Awesome.
I'm really excited to work with you, Wayne.
You're a solid standup guy and you're very great hair.
I'm just kidding.
I'm just talking about myself now.
So next step is you need to have accountability calls with your partner.
So don't assume just because you hand off referrals if they pick them up.
So the way I would recommend you do this is that when you get these referrals, you then
reach out to your partners at the end of the week and you say, hey, look, I got three referrals
for you this week.
Were you able to get a hold of them?
Oh, I'm going to hold one of them.
No problem.
I'll reach out to the other two.
Hey, while I got you on the phone, is there anyone you're working with right now that could
use my help?
How's Wayne going to feel about that?
He's like, oh, shoot, I kind of need to.
I got to do something.
Now, there's three things that Wayne or the financial planner, insurance people,
accountants, all of them.
What they can all give you are three things.

They can give you leads, right?
They can give you introductions to other Professionals, guess what?
Financial planners?
No.
Realtors, financial planners, no.
Insurance people.
They can also give you their database.
And if you're using this database marketing strategy, which I talked about briefly.
So the way that we do the database marketing is with this OMO report that's coming on a
monthly basis.
We do a ramp up so we get them engaged and then we do a seven day call when the
mortgage closes, a 30 day call to check in on it, and then a six month in a one year mortgage
efficiency checkup.
Now people don't show up every call, but the fact that you're actually managing their
mortgage for the life of the mortgage.
And when you have those conversations, the value conversations is very easy to ask for.
Hey, do you need any other help?
I'm not asking for business, I'm asking for who they need and then I connect them and that's
how I get my business.
So does this work?
Absolutely it works.
We've already been experimenting with it.
I just saw recently one of our agents had posted they got four leads this week from IT don't
have a leads problem, you got a business model problem.

And it's just like back when CDs where you're not going to make your money just from
having one static database that's not growing.
But if you do this right, you can create exponential growth in your database.
You can grow a database because you can start adopting databases and with home you can
do this, you can adopt databases and you can actually make this thing way bigger.
So for example, Wally, my buddy, Young, Texas, again, I'm not that creative.
I just see what works.
And I'm like, oh damn, you should copy this.
I would copy this if I was brokering today.
I'm not because I'm busy doing the brokerage and I do the coaching, but I copy this.
So Wally's got 4,000 past clients in his database, but he markets 30,000amonth.
And what's happened is that he's become unfairable.
So he generates so much business for his referral partners that even if he makes a mistake,
he screws up a file completely goes sideways.
They're like, I'm not getting rid of Wally because that guy sends us so much business.
He owns, owns the relationship because the person bringing the most value owns the
relationship and he owns those relationships.
And he can pick and choose who he works with.
So he's going after the absolute best people because the best people get this.
And he's able to pick and choose who he works with.
And he's unfairable because he's created a machine that spits out so much business for
everybody else.
Now, this reminds me of a quote that I remember reading from Zig Ziglar one time.
He said, you can have anything in life you want if you just help enough other people get
what they want.

And that's exactly what you're doing with this.
Stop thinking about your database as just, oh, I need mortgages.
No, you don't.
You'll get mortgages and they'll happen.
But don't target your database that way.
Static database that's only growing when you find a mortgage is way too slow.
You can double, triple, or quadruple the size of your database very easily by implementing
this strategy.
Please give it a try.
Shoot me an email.
Tell me, Scott, you suck.
This is not true.
I'd love you to prove me wrong.
I don't think you can't.
I honestly think that this is the best strategy I've ever seen in terms of how to build a
business today.
If you're brand new, you still got to get that thing going.
So let me get you back up for a second.
If your brand's banking new, you're still going to have to go and build those initial referral
partners.
You still got to build up that initial database because you're not going to have it big enough
to start.
But as soon as it gets to a certain scale, this is what you should be shifting over to.

Hope you found that useful.
Thanks for listening.
I'm Scott Backford.
This is Mortgage Brokering Podcast and as I said, if you want to check out that tool that we
have for Canadians or Homebot AI, if you're in the US go check those out and I'll put links in
the show notes.
You can see those.
Thanks again for listening and I will see you on the next episode.

